police say a perth mountain climber who watched his brother fall over the edge of new zealand 's highest mountain is devastated .
british climber dies in new zealand fall .
robert buckley the second climber to die in the aoraki - mount cook national park at the weekend .
monday 16 september 2013 03 . 31 bst .
a british climber has fallen to his death in new zealand .
robert buckley , 32 , fell about 2 , 000 feet while climbing to a small hut on mount sefton in the aoraki - mount cook national park on saturday , police said .
buckley , who had been living and working in christchurch , was one of four men who were trying to climb to the sefton bivvy from mount cook village , according to new zealand media reports .
they were within 80m of their destination when buckley slipped .
his companions raised the alarm , but then got stuck .
a rescue helicopter found buckley and the others but they could not be rescued until the next morning .
buckley's body was recovered later in the day .
police said in a statement it appeared the group was insufficiently equipped and experienced for the climb .
the three other climbers were released after an examination by medical staff .
the day before buckley's death another climber , 36 - year - old duncan rait , died after slipping and falling about 200 feet from a ridge in the same national park .
the new zealand - born man , who lived in australia , had been been dropped off by helicopter and was walking to a hut when he fell in the tasman glacier area .
police spokesman dave gaskin said the deaths were a reminder that climbers needed to use extreme caution .
'i cant speak for the first death , but in this case it looks like to be a lack of experience , " gaskin told the timaru herald .
a foreign office spokeswoman said : "we are aware of the death of a british man in new zealand .
we are providing consular assistance at this time .
new zealand : british climber killed in fall .
8 : 05am uk , monday 16 september 2013 .
a 32 - year - old british climber , described as "lacking experience" , dies after falling from a mountain in new zealand .
a british man has been killed after falling around 2 , 000ft while climbing in new zealand .
robert buckley , 32 , was climbing to a small hut on mount sefton in the aoraki - mt cook national park on saturday .
he was wearing crampons but was inexperienced , local police inspector dave gaskin said .
his body was recovered by a team of rescuers on sunday afternoon after previous attempts proved unsuccessful .
three climbers who were with mr buckley were rescued after spending the night on the mountain .
they were also released after being examined by medics .
mr gaskin said : "there was a lot of snow and ice in very steep conditions .
"it appears as if the party were insufficiently equipped and inexperienced for the climb they had undertaken . " .
mr buckley's death came a day after 36 - year - old duncan raite died when he slipped and fell around 200ft from a ridge in the same national park .
the new zealand - born man , who lived in australia , had been dropped off by helicopter and was walking to a hut when he fell in the tasman glacier area .
mr gaskin said the deaths were a reminder that climbers needed to use extreme caution .
he said : "i can't speak for the first death , but in this case it looks like to be a lack of experience . " .
a foreign office spokeswoman said : "we are aware of the death of a british man in new zealand .
"we are providing consular assistance at this time . " .
an australian climber who survived two nights stuck on mount cook after seeing his brother die narrowly escaped being buried alive .
climber dead after aoraki mount cook fall .
last updated 13 : 26 14 / 09 / 2013 .
a 36 - year - old australian climber is dead after falling about 150 metres at aoraki mount cook .
the man , from hampton east , fell in the tasman glacier area .
a westpac rescue helicopter from christchurch was called about 3pm to assist with search and rescue co - ordination at the mt cook base .
when it got there , the man had been transported to mt cook village by a local helicopter service and pronounced dead by paramedics .
the man is thought to have fallen much earlier in the day .
dr mark vinar , 43 , is presumed dead after disappearing off zurbriggens ridge , on mt cook , on thursday .
two climbers killed in mt cook falls .
last updated 15 : 48 15 / 09 / 2013 .
the aoraki mt cook alpine rescue team have recovered the body of the second climber to fall to his death at mount cook national park over the weekend .
inspector dave gaskin said the man fell around 2000ft ( 609 metres ) near the mount sefton bivvy , above the mueller glacier .
"the fall was unsurvivable , " inspector gaskin said .
there were four in the climbing party .
the friends of the deceased had to stay in position overnight until the weather was suitable to carry them out by rescue helicopter this morning .
the body was recovered in the afternoon , and taken to mt cook village initially , then on to timaru .
inspector gaskin confirmed the climbing party are foreigners , but would not specify any other details until the family of the deceased had been informed .
with two deaths at mt cook national park this weekend , inspector gaskin said police and rescures were pushed to their limits .
"resources are tight , there's no doubt about that .
it's been very difficult but the guys have done a wonderful job . " .
he said the two deaths were not related to weather conditions .
"i can't speak for the first death , but in this case it looks like to be a lack of experience , " inspector gaskin said .
yesterday , a 36 - year - old australian climber died after falling about 150 metres at mt cook .
the man , from hampton east , fell in the tasman glacier area .
a westpac rescue helicopter from christchurch was called about 3pm to assist with search and rescue co - ordination at the mt cook base .
when it got there , the man had been transported to mt cook village by a local helicopter service and pronounced dead by paramedics .
the man is thought to have fallen much earlier in the day .
a colleague has paid tribute to a perth doctor feared dead after a fall from a mountain in new zealand .
english and australian climbers fall to their deaths in new zealand mountains .
one australian and one english climber have fallen to their deaths in new zealand .
8 : 44am bst 16 sep 2013 .
police inspector dave gaskin said the two incidents on consecutive days in the aoraki - mt . cook national park were not related and were not due to bad weather .
he said they come as a reminder that climbers need to use extreme caution .
on friday , 36 - year - old duncan rait died after slipping and falling about 200ft from a ridge near the tasman glacier .
the new zealand - born australian was planning to do some ski touring .
he " d been dropped off by helicopter with a group and was walking to a hut when he fell , sliding down a steep slope and over a cliff .
gaskin said that other climbers attempted to rescue raite by taking him down the glacier , but that he died on the way down .
on saturday , 32 - year - old englishman robert buckley , originally from essex , but living in christchurch , fell about 2 , 000ft while climbing to a small hut on mount sefton with three companions .
gaskin said buckley was wearing crampons but was inexperienced .
police said that mr buckley's group appeared to be "insufficiently" equipped and inexperienced for the climb they chose .
"they had hired some climbing equipment early that day and had managed to get within 80 meters of the bivvy , " police said .
"at this stage . . . one of the party has slipped on the ice and has fallen some 700 metres to his death . " .
mark vinar , an australian climber from perth , has been presumed dead after falling over half a kilometre from new zealand 's highest peak , mount cook .
september 15 , 2013 11 : 26 pm .
australian , english climbers fall to their deaths in new zealand mountains .
one australian and one english climber have fallen to their deaths in new zealand .
police inspector dave gaskin said monday the two incidents on consecutive days in the aoraki - mt . cook national park were not related and were not due to bad weather .
he says they come as a reminder that climbers need to use extreme caution .
on friday , 36 - year - old duncan raite died after slipping and falling about 60 metres ( 200 feet ) from a ridge .
the new zealand - born australian was planning to do some ski touring .
he " d been dropped off by helicopter and was walking to a hut when he fell .
on saturday , 32 - year - old englishman robert buckley fell about 600 metres ( 2 , 000 feet ) while climbing to a small hut on mount sefton .
gaskin said buckley was wearing crampons but was inexperienced .
an australian climber who watched his brother fall to his death on new zealand 's highest peak said he was expecting to die that night on the treacherous mountain .
16 september 2013 last updated at 12 : 42 gmt .
briton dies in new zealand's aoraki mount cook national park .
a british climber has fallen 2 , 000ft to his death on a mountain in new zealand , police there have said .
robert buckley , 32 , died while climbing to a hut on mount sefton in the aoraki mount cook national park on saturday .
police inspector dave gaskin said mr buckley was well equipped at the time but was an inexperienced climber .
a foreign office spokeswoman said : "we are aware of the death of a british man in new zealand .
we are providing consular assistance at this time . " .
extreme caution .
mr buckley , originally from essex in the uk , lived in new zealand , says the press association news agency .
his body was recovered by a team of rescuers on sunday afternoon after attempts on saturday were unsuccessful , according to local media reports .
three climbers with mr buckley were said to have been rescued after spending the night on the mountain .
they were were released after a medical examination .
mr buckley's death came a day after 36 - year - old duncan rait was killed after slipping and falling 200ft from a ridge in the same national park .
the new zealander , who lived in australia , had been been dropped off by helicopter and was walking to a hut when he fell in the tasman glacier area .
inspector gaskin said the deaths were a reminder that climbers needed to use extreme caution .
"i can't speak for the first death but in this case it looks like to be a lack of experience , " he told the timaru herald .
miles vinar spoke to one news about seeing his brother plunge to his death on thursday , and about his own desperate battle to stay alive on the mountain .
australian , english climbers killed in new zealand .
september 16 , 2013 11 : 12am .
one australian and one english climber have fallen to their deaths in new zealand , police confirmed today .
police inspector dave gaskin said the two incidents on consecutive days in the aoraki - mt . cook national park were not related and were not due to bad weather .
he said they come as a reminder that climbers need to use extreme caution .
on friday , 36 - year - old duncan rait died after slipping and falling about 60m from a ridge near the tasman glacier .
the new zealand - born australian was planning to do some ski touring .
he'd been dropped off by helicopter with a group and was walking to a hut when he fell , sliding down a steep slope and over a cliff .
gaskin said that other climbers attempted to rescue rait by taking him down the glacier , but that he died on the way down .
on saturday , 32 - year - old englishman robert buckley fell about 600m while climbing to a small hut on mount sefton with three companions .
gaskin said buckley was wearing crampons but was inexperienced .
a perth man has survived after spending up to two nights in an ice cave on new zealand 's mt cook after seeing his brother fall to his death from the country 's highest peak .
second climber dies at mt cook .
sun , 15 sep 2013 .
two men have died in separate climbing accidents at mt cook this weekend .
the aoraki mt cook alpine rescue team worked today to recover the body of a climber after bad weather hindered efforts yesterday .
the climber fell in fading light yesterday near the mt sefton bivvy , and rescue teams were unable to reach him or his companions due to the weather .
police are still at the scene and say more details will be released later .
the first of the deaths this weekend was that of a new zealand climber who fell on friday morning .
the 36 - year - old , who had been living in melbourne , slipped and fell approximately 200 metres down a steep ice gully as he was approaching the tasman saddle hut , police said .
his brother witnessed the fall and had to spend the night in a hut before rescuers could reach him .
the victim was still alive when rescuers reached him , helicopter line pilot jim campbell told the herald on sunday .
"he was very badly hurt and he'd lost his hat and gloves in the fall so he was very cold . " .
the rescue team had to carry the man by stretcher down a glacier , walking two hours to reach a rescue helicopter .
a westpac rescue helicopter from christchurch was called to help with search and rescue co - ordination at the mt cook base .
by the time it arrived , the man had been transported to mt cook village by a local helicopter service and had been pronounced dead by paramedics .
he had been planning a four - day ski tour of the area and was using the tasman saddle hut as a base , police said .
mr campbell said police told him the man was well - equipped but was not wearing crampons when he slipped .
a massive rescue bid was made shortly after 11am on friday , with members of the aoraki mt cook department of conservation alpine rescue team , alpine guides , the helicopter line , twizel and fairlie police and westpac rescue paramedics all called in to help .
constable joseph rush , of twizel police , said the weather conditions were severe , with poor visibility , strong wind gusts and - 15c temperatures .
the man's name will not be released until family have been notified .
a climber who watched his brother fall to his death from a notorious ridge on mt cook , is lucky to be alive after two " horrific " nights high on the mountain .
second man dies in mt cook national park .
14 : 25 sun sep 15 2013 .
a second man has fallen to his death in aoraki mount cook national park .
the man aged in his early 30s fell about 600m while climbing near the mount sefton bivvy on saturday afternoon .
rescue personnel were not able to reach him or his three companions , who were all from overseas , due to low light levels on saturday , mid - south canterbury area commander inspector dave gaskin said .
"they managed to have a look at him and it was pretty clear that there was no signs of life and they've flown in today to retrieve the body , " he told nz newswire on sunday .
the other three men were rescued by about 10am on sunday morning .
"we haven't been in a position to speak to the survivors at this stage , but it appears as if their equipment and preparation was limited , " insp gaskin said .
it was the second death in the park in two days .
a 36 - year - old man died about 11am on friday after he slipped and fell about 200m down a steep icy gully .
the man , a new zealander living in melbourne , was planning to go ski touring .
two deaths so close together was unusual for the time of year , insp gaskin said .
"we don't normally get too many climbing accidents at this time of year , it's still basically winter conditions here , so there's very little climbing done . " .
the climbing season generally starts about late october / early november .
mr gaskin urged people not to go into situations unprepared .
"this is an extremely dangerous area and if you're going to climb or come into this area and go up high in the mountains , you've got to make sure that you know what you're doing and you've got all the appropriate equipment . " .
an australian climber who survived two nights stuck on mount cook after seeing his brother die also narrowly escaped being buried alive himself .
australian ski mountaineer dies in fall in new zealand .
september 16 , 2013 9 : 36 am .
a 36 - year - old australian man died on friday after falling 150 meters from a ridge in aoraki / mt . cook national park on new zealand " s south island .
duncan robert rait , a new zealand native living in melbourne , australia , was with a group of ski mountaineers who had just arrived by helicopter to a ridge top location near the tasman saddle hut .
while en route from the drop - off location to the hut he slipped from the ridgeline and fell to his death .
rait had planned to spend four days ski touring in the area with his brother .
although not a factor in the accident , rescue efforts were hampered by weather conditions .
the rescue team were dropped at the hut and then descended to the location of the injured man as the helicopter became grounded due to poor weather .
rait was returned to mt . cook village , where he was pronounced dead .
the day following rait " s death an inexperienced and reportedly ill - equipped mountain climber with rental gear , 31 - year - old robert buckley of the u . k . but living in christchurch , new zealand , slipped on ice and fell 700 meters to his own death elsewhere in the same national park .
robbers in drag steal e80 million from paris diamond store in biggest french heist .
paris thieves nab $2 . 5 million worth of jewellery .
robbers crash 4x4 into store , grabbing jewelry and watches , before setting car ablaze .
four men rammed their car into an upmarket jewellery store in central paris on monday , smashing the shop window and making off with a two - million - euro ( $2 . 6 - million ) booty , a police source said .
the heist near the upscale place vendome is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
the police source , who wished to remain anonymous , said the men drove a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hours of the morning and grabbed jewellery and luxury watches worth an estimated two million euros .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escaped in another car .
forensic investigators are currently going through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first district of paris , which is home to numerous jewellery shops .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewellery worth 103 million euros in one of the world's biggest ever heists .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost all of the stock of gems from the harry winston jewellery store .
in 2009 , police said they had recovered 80 percent of the haul .
the four robbers , two of whom were disguised as women , stole nearly all the jewellery on display at harry winston jewellers on the avenue montaigne , just off the champs-elysees in the french capital .
9 september 2013 , 14 : 08 .
paris : jewellery stolen in casty shop raid .
jewellery and watches worth £1 . 7m have been stolen during a heist in an upmarket central paris shop .
four men drove a 4x4 through the front window of the store on rue de castiglione , before making off with the jewellery and watches .
they then set fire to the vehicle before fleeing in another car .
forensic policemen are examining the casty store in the central first district of the capital , home to numerous jewellery shops .
the heist near place vendome is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a robbery at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewellery worth £88m in one of the world's biggest ever heists .
and last month thieves made off with £35 , 000 of jewellery after cracking two safes at the luxury grand hotel du cap in saint - jean - cap - ferrat , near nice .
in may , thieves stole £910 , 000 worth of jewellery from an employee of swiss firm chopard that was due to be loaned to film stars during the cannes film festival and a second theft saw a diamond necklace worth £1 . 2m stolen .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost the entire stock of gems from the harry winston jewellery store .
police said they had recovered 80% of the haul in 2009 .
harry winston diamond corp. 's prestigious paris jewellery store near the champs-elysee was stormed by as many as four robbers on thursday afternoon .
armed robbers stole gems worth 85 million euros ( 74 million pounds ) from luxury jewellers in the heart of paris , during a raid described by french media on friday as the most lucrative heist in france 's history .
french police say armed robbers cleaned out a high-end jewelry store yesterday in paris , news organizations report .
three or four robbers burst into the store on ritzy avenue montaigne near the champs-elysees late thursday afternoon and stole watches , rings and necklaces .
four armed robbers -- two dressed as women -- made off with $ 137-million of diamonds and jewels from a famed paris store .
paris hit by 2 mn - euro jewelry heist .
four men rammed their car into an upmarket jewelry store in central paris on monday , smashing the shop window and making off with a two - million - euro ( $2 . 6 - million ) booty , a police source said .
the heist near the upscale place vendome is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
the police source , who wished to remain anonymous , said the men drove a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hours of the morning and grabbed jewelry and luxury watches worth an estimated two million euros .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escaped in another car .
forensic policemen are currently going through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first district of paris , which is home to numerous jewelry shops .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewelry worth 103 million euros in one of the world's biggest ever heists .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost all of the stock of gems from the harry winston jewelry store .
in 2009 , police said they had recovered 80 percent of the haul .
armed robbers in drag carried out one of the biggest jewel heists in history , snatching p74million of diamond rings , necklaces and luxury watches from a boutique in paris .
two million euro jewellery heist in central paris .
thieves pulled off a two million - euro jewellery heist in central paris on monday morning after smashing their car through the store's front window .
12 : 48pm bst 09 sep 2013 .
four men rammed their car into the casty store near paris's chic place vendôme in the latest in a spate of high - profile robberies in france – most on the riviera .
a police source said the men drove a large four - by - four car into the store at around 4 . 30am and grabbed jewellery and luxury watches worth an estimated two million euros ( £1 . 7 million ) .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escaped in another car .
the entire robbery was over in a matter of minutes .
forensic teams were examining the crime scene on rue de castiglione in paris' first arrondissement , home to numerous jewellery shops .
"they are absolutely not afraid of anything , " gérard bénézat , the store's insurer , told france info .
"it's become almost routine and yet everyone knows what needs to be done to be protected . " .
armed robbers stole diamonds valued at 85 million euros ( $ 108 million ) from the paris branch of jeweler harry winston , the city prosecutors ' office said .
thieves in $2 . 6 million smash - and - grab raid on paris jewelry store .
a smash - and - grab on a high end paris store saw four robbers make off with jewelry and watches valued at over $2 . 6 million early monday .
at around 4 : 30 a . m . local time ( 11 . 30 p . m . et ) the thieves rammed an suv into the front of the casty store , near the prestigious place vendome , a well - known square in the center of the french capital that is home to a number of jewelers and high - end stores .
after scooping up jewelry and watches estimated to be worth 2 million euros ( $2 . 6 million ) the thieves reversed their car out of the store and set fire to it before making off in another vehicle , le monde reported .
the raid comes little over a month after a masked bandit made off with an $136m worth of diamonds and jewels from the carlton intercontinental hotel in cannes on the glamorous french riviera , in possibly the world " s biggest heist .
a lone robber entered through a french door at the side of the building on the famed la croisette seafront , scooped up the loot and then jumped out of another window .
despite a huge police investigation , the audacious culprit remains at large .
thieves also targeted the annual cannes film festival , stealing almost $2 million of jewelry from the safe in the hotel room of an american jeweler working for chopard , one of switzerland " s most famous diamond merchants .
days later a $2 . 5 million necklace was lifted by a crook at a movie industry party at the even more exclusive resort of cap d " antibes , near the italian border .
armed robbers - some disguised as women - snatched $ 108 million worth of diamond rings , necklaces and luxury watches from a harry winston boutique on a posh paris avenue in one of the largest jewel heists in history , officials said friday .
9 september 2013 last updated at 14 : 39 gmt .
france jewels thefts : robbers ram 4x4 into paris shop .
french police are investigating a daring jewellery robbery in paris - the latest in a series of high - profile thefts in france this summer .
in the early hours of monday , thieves rammed a 4x4 vehicle through the windows of an upmarket jewellery store near the prestigious place vendome .
they made off with 2m euros ( £1 . 7m ; $2 . 6m ) in gems and watches .
in july , a masked jewel thief stole £88m worth of precious stones from the carlton hotel in cannes .
after monday's robbery , the thieves set fire to the 4x4 vehicle in an adjacent side street and made off in a second car .
many of the most famous names in jewellery have their flagship stores in the place vendome , and this is a further embarrassment to the french authorities who have seen a spate of robberies in recent weeks , says the bbc's christian fraser in paris .
inevitably , the finger will again be pointed at the pink panther gang , a loosely aligned network of criminals who are believed to have carried out 300 similar robberies across the world since 1999 , our correspondent says .
the international police agency interpol has recently begun co - ordinating its efforts to track down the gangs' members , many of them from the former yugoslavia .
in 2007 , the gang drove two cars through the window of a jewellery store in dubai , and in less than a minute had escaped with 11m euros of jewellery .
armed thieves have carried out another brazen and meticulously planned robbery of the harry winston store in central paris , making off with an estimated $ 102 million in jewelry .
ram - raiders hit paris jewellery store for €2m .
published : 09 sep 2013 11 : 25 gmt+02 : 00 .
updated : 09 sep 2013 11 : 25 gmt+02 : 00 .
ram - raiders ploughed their vehicle into an upmarket jewellery boutique near place vendôme in central paris on monday in a dramatic dawn robbery , making off with €2 million worth of loot .
four men rammed their car into an upmarket jewellery store in central paris on monday , smashing the shop window and making off with a €2 million ( $2 . 6 - million ) booty , a police source said .
the heist near the upscale place vendôme is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
the police source , who wished to remain anonymous , said the men drove a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hours of the morning and grabbed jewellery and luxury watches worth an estimated €2 million .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escaped in another car .
forensic policemen are currently going through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first arrondissement of paris , which is home to numerous jewellery shops .
paris also witnessed another dramatic robbery on sunday night when thieves armed with kalashnikovs stormed a subsidiary of the france's rail operator sncf in the capital's 15th arrondissement .
according to reports , the robbers escaped with around €60 , 000 from the company which is in charge of managing restaurant cars on the tgv trains .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewellery worth €103 million in one of the world's biggest ever heists .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost all of the stock of gems from the harry winston jewellery store .
in 2009 , police said they had recovered 80 percent of the haul .
a savvy band of jewel thieves , armed with guns and some posing as women , have struck in the heart of the city 's golden triangle of luxury shops , stealing more than e85 million worth of diamonds , rings and watches from a posh harry winston boutique .
paris : jewellery stolen in casty shop raid .
11 : 39am uk , monday 09 september 2013 .
four men smash their car into a jewellery store before fleeing in a different vehicle in the latest high - profile heist in france .
jewellery and watches worth £1 . 7m have been stolen during a heist in an upmarket central paris shop .
four men drove a 4x4 through the front window of the store on rue de castiglione , before making off with the jewellery and watches .
they then set fire to the vehicle before fleeing in another car .
forensic policemen are examining the casty store in the central first district of the capital , home to numerous jewellery shops .
the heist near place vendome is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a robbery at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewellery worth £88m in one of the world's biggest ever heists .
and last month thieves made off with £35 , 000 of jewellery after cracking two safes at the luxury grand hotel du cap in saint - jean - cap - ferrat , near nice .
in may , thieves stole £910 , 000 worth of jewellery from an employee of swiss firm chopard that was due to be loaned to film stars during the cannes film festival and a second theft saw a diamond necklace worth £1 . 2m stolen .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost the entire stock of gems from the harry winston jewellery store .
police said they had recovered 80% of the haul in 2009 .
a gang of four thieves -- two of them disguised as women -- on thursday stole nearly all the jewels on display at the harry winston boutique just off the champs-elysees avenue , which attracts a wealthy international clientele .
france hit by another jewellery heist .
9 september 2013 11 : 55 .
four men rammed their car into an up - market jewellery store in central paris today , smashing the shop window and making off with a €2 million ( r26 million ) booty , a police source said .
the heist near the upscale place vendome is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
the police source , who wished to remain anonymous , said the men drove a large 4×4 car into the store in the early hours of the morning , and grabbed jewellery and luxury watches worth an estimated €2 million .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escaped in another car .
forensic policemen are currently going through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first district of paris , which is home to numerous jewellery shops .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewellery worth €103 million in one of the world " s biggest heists .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost all of the stock of gems from the harry winston jewellery store .
in 2009 , police said they had recovered 80% of the haul .
jewellery worth more than $ 160 million has been stolen from a paris boutique in what is believed to be france 's biggest jewellery theft .
paris store hit by $2 . 6 million jewelry heist .
september 9 , 2013 .
four men rammed their car into an upmarket jewelry store in central paris on monday , smashing the shop window and stealing $2 . 6 million ( two million euros ) in jewelry , according to afp .
the heist near place vendome is the latest to hit france after a string of high - profile robberies in cannes .
a police source reported that the men drove a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hours of the morning , grabbing jewelry and luxury watches before setting fire to the vehicle and escaping in another car .
daring diamond heist in downtown paris .
at 5:30 p.m . , four armed robbers , some reportedly dressed in drag , entered the store on the chic avenue montaigne , off the champs elysees in central paris , a heavily patrolled area less than 330 feet from a police station .
crooks at $2 . 6 million heist on paris jewelry store .
a smash - and - grab on a high end paris store saw four robbers make off with jewelry and watches valued at over $2 . 6 million early monday .
at around 4 : 30 a . m . local time ( 11 . 30 p . m . et ) the thieves rammed an suv into the front of the casty store , near the prestigious place vendome , a well - known square in the center of the french capital that is home to a number of jewelers and high - end stores .
after scooping up jewelry and watches estimated to be worth 2 million euros ( $2 . 6 million ) the thieves reversed their car out of the store and set fire to it before making off in another vehicle , le monde reported .
the raid comes little over a month after a masked bandit made off with an $136m worth of diamonds and jewels from the carlton intercontinental hotel in cannes on the glamorous french riviera , in possibly the world " s biggest heist .
a lone robber entered through a french door at the side of the building on the famed la croisette seafront , scooped up the loot and then jumped out of another window .
despite a huge police investigation , the audacious culprit remains at large .
thieves also targeted the annual cannes film festival , stealing almost $2 million of jewelry from the safe in the hotel room of an american jeweler working for chopard , one of switzerland " s most famous diamond merchants .
days later a $2 . 5 million necklace was lifted by a crook at a movie industry party at the even more exclusive resort of cap d " antibes , near the italian border .
texas prisoner captured after week on the run .
7 : 15 a . m . dec . 7 , 2009 .
a convicted sex offender who was the subject of a weeklong manhunt after pulling off a daring escape during a prison transfer was captured monday after authorities received several phone tips , including one from a salesman who recognized the inmate outside his business .
a hungry , wet and barefoot arcade joseph comeaux jr . was caught in northeast houston , about 25 miles northwest of where he escaped , said alfredo perez , a spokesman for the u . s . marshals service .
comeaux , 49 , was in a wheelchair nov . 30 when he pulled a gun on two guards and fired it during a transfer from a prison unit in huntsville to one in beaumont .
the guards , who were unharmed , were forced to drive to the baytown area , where comeaux took their weapons , handcuffed them together and ran away .
comeaux was serving a sentence of life in prison for a 1998 aggravated sexual assault conviction in brazos county , northwest of houston .
he was given two extra life sentences after being convicted of stabbing his wife and another person in 1999 while she visited him in prison .
12 january 2010 @ 09 : 29 pm .
fallout continues after brazen escape .
the texas department of criminal justice has made sweeping leadership changes at a huntsville prison where an inmate managed to get a gun that he later used to escape , the agency announced tuesday .
the nov . 30 escape by arcade joseph comeaux jr . , a convicted rapist recaptured last month after eight days on the run in baytown and houston , has led to unprecedented fallout at the prison unit where he was housed , with the largest number of tdcj employees ever facing termination or disciplinary action because of a single incident , said tdcj inspector general john moriarty .
comeaux , 49 , escaped from a prison van in baytown after he pulled a gun on two tdcj officers driving him to another prison in beaumont .
he was at large until dec . 7 , when he was found shoeless , wet and hungry at a north houston business , where he asked to use the phone .
so far , 11 estelle unit employees have been recommended for termination or faced consequences related to comeaux's escape .
four of those elected to retire instead of facing disciplinary action , including the two officers who drove comeaux in the van on the day he escaped .
whitmire questioned why several prisons , including the estelle unit , stopped searching visitors two months before comeaux's escape and moved to random pat - downs .
since comeaux's jailbreak , all visitors and employees at the estelle prison unit are again subject to mandatory pat - downs , lyons said .
after more than three years and a tangled trail of frustrating legal delays , the man who killed four people in a brazen courthouse escape was sentenced saturday to prison for life without parole and hundreds of years more .
yet prosecutors who spent the last month urging jurors to sentence one of atlanta 's most notorious criminals to death were not celebrating .
" the community has spoken , " fulton county district attorney paul howard said at an emotional press conference after the sentencing of brian nichols .
" even though we are puzzled and terribly disappointed by the decision , we must accept the conclusion provided by our community . " .
it showed how difficult it is to get a capital sentence in atlanta 's fulton county , where death penalties are rare even in a state where support for capital punishment is widespread .
georgia tied for third in carrying out executions last year .
and it underscored the problems georgia prosecutors say they frequently face with the requirement that death sentences can only be returned by unanimous jury verdicts .
nichols , 37 , was found guilty last month of murdering a judge , a court reporter , a sheriff 's deputy and a federal agent in the march 2005 rampage .
after four days deliberating on whether to recommend the death penalty , the jury deadlocked at 9-3 .
nichols will likely die in prison after superior court judge james bodiford handed down the maximum prison sentence on each of 54 charges .
the deadlock devastated prosecutors , who had turned down an offer from nichols ' attorneys to plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence .
the trial has already cost more than $ 2 million , likely the most expensive in state history .
and it may not be over yet .
howard said he 's talked to the u.s. attorney about a federal death penalty trial for the federal agent 's slaying .
in the meantime , howard and some state legislative leaders said georgia 's death penalty rules should be changed .
" georgia is a conservative state , but there are pockets where it is not , " said state rep. barry fleming , a republican who led a failed bid last year to allow judges to approve death penalties even if one or two jurors voted against it .
" there are people who will attempt to nullify the law when they get on the jury . " .
the last time a fulton county jury issued a death sentence was eight years ago , and only then for a triple murderer who killed a toddler .
one factor could be race .
the county is 43 percent black , and numerous polls and surveys have found that blacks are more likely than whites to oppose capital punishment .
eight of the jurors were black .
the three who voted against the death penalty would not comment , but howard said other jurors told him the three holdouts refused to deliberate .
he said he was told that one was wearing headphones during the closed-door discussions this week .
two jurors who spoke at howard 's news conference but declined to be identified said they worked hard to try to reach a verdict .
" i believe brian nichols did not win .
in his own words , he said it 's not his dna to stay in jail , which is what he has to look forward to the rest of his life , " said christina greenway , daughter of slain court reporter julie ann brandau .
" i 'm not disappointed and i have no regrets . " .
nichols was being escorted to his trial for rape when he overpowered a deputy guarding him and stole her gun .
he burst into the courtroom and shot and killed superior court judge rowland barnes , brandau and sheriff 's deputy hoyt teasley .
he fled downtown atlanta and managed to evade hundreds of police officers searching for him overnight .
in atlanta 's posh buckhead neighborhood , he shot and killed federal agent david wilhelm at a house the agent was renovating .
death penalty experts said the nichols verdict shows there 's no telling what will happen when a jury is asked to settle a capital case .
" it 's very hard for 12 people to sit down around the table to make a decision to put another human being to death , " said stephen bright , a yale law school lecturer and a veteran capital defense attorney .
nichols , who argued he was insane when he carried out the killings , spoke for the first time in court on saturday as relatives of the victims ' families quietly wept .
" i just wanted to say that i know that the things i 've done caused a lot of pain and i 'm sorry , " he said .
" and i just wanted to say that i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life .
that 's it . " .
the judge had advice for anyone who deals with nichols in the future .
" do not trust mr. nichols ever again .
ever again .
because he can not be trusted . " .
arcade joseph comeaux jr , prison inmate , pulls gun on and handcuffs guards , runs away .
11 / 30 / 09 05 : 40 pm et .
a convicted sex offender sentenced to life in prison pulled a gun on two guards during a prison transfer monday and held them hostage temporarily before fleeing on foot in one of the guard's uniforms , authorities said .
at the time of the escape , the inmate was in a wheelchair , which he claimed he needed to help move him around , officials said .
comeaux , 49 , took the officers' weapons and handcuffed them together in the back of the vehicle before fleeing on foot at around 9 a . m . , lyons said .
he was serving a life sentence after being convicted in june 1998 of aggravated sexual assault out of brazos county , located northwest of houston .
comeaux was given two extra life sentences after being convicted for stabbing his wife and another person in 1999 while she visited him in prison .
she survived the attack .
comeaux also injured a man who was visiting another inmate at the time and tried to stop the attack .
the escape triggered a lockdown at lee college and three campuses in the goose creek school district , in and around baytown .
now that fulton county courthouse killer brian nichols has been sentenced to life without parole , one of the not yet answered questions is where the 37-year-old will serve time .
superior court judge james bodiford on saturday suggested that nichols should serve his time in the federal maximum security prison - known as supermax - in florence , colo. , which has the reputation as the nation 's toughest and most secure prison .
bodiford said he was surprised to learn during the trial that nichols , who is committed of state crimes , could still serve his time in a federal prison .
" i thought maybe supermax might be a good place for mr. nichols for what it is worth , " bodiford said .
" i do n't believe i can order it and i am not going to order it but that is my two cents worth . " .
about the prison .
the supermax unit at the florence federal correctional complex at florence , colo. , primarily holds extremely dangerous or escape-risk federal inmates .
there also are a few state prisoners there who need more security than those prisons can provide .
the remote prison , which opened in 1994 , almost disappears into the same-color desert around it .
cells are 8-by-12 feet , with concrete walls , ceilings and furnishings , including the bed .
the toilets , sinks and showers are stainless steel .
cell windows are long and narrow , limiting the view to only the sky .
some known inmates .
unabomber ted kaczynski , shoe bomber richard reid , and sept. 11 , 2001 conspirator zacarias moussaoui .
jamil abdullah al-amin , the 1960s militant once named h. rap brown , convicted in georgia of the state crime of murdering a fulton county deputy .
convicted of federal crimes in georgia : eric robert rudolph , who pleaded guilty to the centennial olympic park bombings and other bombings in atlanta , and malachi z. york , the nuwaubian leader convicted of child molestation , racketeering and federal financial reporting charges .
prison program .
a three-step program limits - or perhaps deprives - inmates of many things that would stimulate the senses - smell , sight and touch .
olympic park bomber rudolph complained in letters to a colorado newspaper in 2006 that the prison 's design was driving him insane .
in the first stage of the program , inmates spend 23 of every 24 hours double-locked behind a steel door and a barred grate .
they are allowed one 15-minute telephone call a month .
one hour each day is spent alone in a recreation area .
their behavior is reviewed every 90 days before they can be moved up to the next step .
at the second and third steps , inmates are given progressively more freedom , more time for exercise , longer and more frequent telephone calls and more social contact with other prisoners - as long as they are free of violations .
limited inmate privileges .
inmates get a radio and a black-and-white , 13-inch television made specially with clear backs that reveal all internal components .
the tvs are hooked up to " basic cable . " .
inmates participate in religious services that are broadcast on their televisions .
guards pass inmates ' meals , law books and other items through a slot in the door .
there is limited direct human contact .
convicted child molestor arcade joseph comeaux jr . on the lam in texas .
nov . 30 , 2009 .
a convicted child molester who was supposedly confined to a wheelchair overpowered two prison guards today , handcuffed them , stole their weapons and walked off wearing one of their uniforms .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , is serving a life sentence for several charges – including indecency with a child – and was en route from the estelle unit in huntsville , texas , to the stiles unit in beaumont , texas , when he escaped just after 9 a . m .
lyons said that comeaux used a wheelchair in prison – he "claimed it was necessary for his mobility" – and added , "since he fled on foot , that's obviously in question . " .
described as a 6 - feet tall and weighing approximately 200 pounds , lyons warned that comeaux knows the area where he escaped well and could have family nearby .
he initially was imprisoned on february 1979 on three 10 - year sentences for rape of a child , aggravated rape of a child , and burglary of a building with the intent to commit theft .
his supervision was revoked and he returned to prison in may 1984 with a new charge of indecency with a child , given a new 20 year sentence .
between 1991 and 1998 , comeaux was in and out of prison on parole violations until he finally returned to prison in june 1999 to serve a life sentence for aggravated sexual assault .
in 1999 , comeaux stabbed his wife during a visit , using his wheelchair to pin her against a wall while he stabbed her .
his wife survived , but another inmate who tried to break up the attack also suffered stab wounds , and comeaux was convicted of additional assault charges and received two additional life sentences .
former kutztown university football player brian nichols has received a sentence of life in prison without parole for a march 2005 shooting spree in an atlanta courthouse , according to reports .
according to reports in an atlanta newspaper .
nichols was sentenced saturday morning to seven life sentences and four sentences of life without parole plus 485 years .
nichols was being tried for rape in march 2005 when he overpowered a female sheriff 's deputy , took her gun and shot the judge in his rape trial and the court reporter .
outside the courtroom , nichols shot and killed a sheriff 's deputy sergeant .
later that day , as he attempted to elude police , he shot and killed a u.s. customs agent .
he later made it to gwinnett county where he kidnapped a woman who says she talked nichols into surrendering .
arcade joseph comeaux jr : texas child molester escaped and armed .
november 30 , 2009 at 02 : 22 pm .
texas inmate arcade joseph comeaux jr . escaped when he was being transported to a prison in beaumont from huntsville .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . is a convicted sex offender serving a life sentence .
comeaux escaped with a 12 - gauge shotgun and 2 semiautomatic pistols .
he initially was imprisoned on february 1979 on three 10 - year sentences for rape of a child , aggravated rape of a child , and burglary of a building with the intent to commit theft .
his supervision was revoked and he returned to prison in may 1984 with a new charge of indecency with a child , given a new 20 year sentence .
between 1991 and 1998 , comeaux was in and out of prison on parole violations until he finally returned to prison in june 1999 to serve a life sentence for aggravated sexual assault .
fulton courthouse killer brian nichols was sentenced saturday morning to seven life sentences and four sentences of life without parole plus 485 years for the crimes he committed on march 11 , 2005 , that stunned metro atlanta and the nation .
brian nichols was saved from a death sentence by three jurors who were determined that he instead spend his life in prison , no matter how many people he killed .
fulton county district attorney paul howard suggested saturday that the possibility of a death penalty was doomed - even before jury selection - by the three holdouts .
" i talked to two jurors and they both say that some people showed up for jury duty with their minds already made up and never entered into a meaningful discussion of a death sentence , " howard said saturday after nichols was sentenced .
" that means we did n't get a fair trial . " .
the two jurors , who indicated they were among the nine voting to put nichols to death , reported one of the holdouts even worked a crossword puzzle while the panel deliberated nichols ' fate for 40 hours over four days .
the frustrated prosecutor gambled on getting a death penalty decision when he denied a nichols offer a year ago to plead guilty in exchange for a life prison sentence .
he said saturday that he would urge georgia lawmakers to amend the law - that now requires a unanimous decision - to allow a 10-juror majority approve a death penalty .
" we 're not asking for favors - we are just asking for a level playing field , " howard said .
" people who will not deliberate should not be permitted to continue to serve on juries . " .
he was especially vexed because the holdouts were evidently not truthful when questioned by lawyers about whether they could impose the death penalty before they were chosen for the jury .
he said all the jurors swore under oath that they could consider death for nichols if they felt the crimes deserved it .
inside the jury room , however , the three holdouts told the other nine jurors that they would not impose death for any killings .
in fact , howard said , the nine pro-death jurors asked the three holdouts how many people would nichols have to kill before they would be willing to vote for execution .
" they asked , 'how about if it had been 50 people ? ' " howard said .
" and the three people said it would n't make any difference at all . " .
the two female jurors , one white and one black , spoke publicly at a news conference saturday to express their exasperation .
" i want the families to know we did everything we could do , " said the white woman , who was identified as juror no. 12 .
family members of the four murder victims expressed outrage that nichols had escaped the death penalty .
" i feel in some ways he is proud of what he did , " said deborah teasley , widow of a sheriff 's deputy nichols murdered .
" he was constantly sitting there at the defense table with a smirk on his face . " .
the two jurors , who did not give their names , said the closed-door jury deliberations never became hostile during the four days they tried to decide a penalty .
" everyone was respectful , " said juror no. 8 , one of six african-american women on the panel .
" we were able to state our opinions .
but we would not back down . " .
it was the pro-death majority , hoping to sway the three holdouts , who sought the replay of the bombshell jailhouse tape recording of nichols talking with his brother on a telephone call .
" we were searching , " juror no. 12 said .
an angry nichols was recorded saying he did n't regret the four murders and would have taken his rampage to the da 's office in the courthouse if given the chance again .
defense attorneys vehemently objected to the tape as " highly prejudicial , " though judge james bodiford said jurors could rehear just the portion played for them at trial .
in the end , the jury did not follow through with a formal written request for the tape .
the two jurors kept their public comments limited at the news conference .
other jurors contacted by the atlanta journal-constitution , including the jury foreman , declined to talk or answer questions left for them at their residences .
the jury - six black women , two white women , two black men , one white man and one asian man - began hearing the case sept. 22 and convicted nichols on nov. 7 after 12 hours of deliberation .
the trial then entered a four-week penalty phase , with prosecution witnesses testifying that nichols is still a remorseless killer plotting constantly to escape , and defense witnesses testifying he had a troubled childhood and has shown signs of remorse and redemption .
howard said the jurors in the majority told him after reporting their 9-3 deadlock to bodiford that they did not know they could have asked bodiford to replace with alternates the three who refused to deliberate with them .
on friday morning , a day after the 9-3 deadlock was first reported , prosecutor kellie hill asked bodiford to ask the jury if all of the jurors were participating in good faith .
defense lawyers objected , arguing to bodiford that any such inquiry during the penalty phase would amount to coercion - which could result in a reversal on appeal .
josh moore , one of the defense lawyers , had reminded the judge earlier that unanimity in the penalty phase was not required .
" georgia law shows no preference for a unanimous verdict in the sentencing phase of a death case , " he said .
howard said state law is murky on whether a judge could inquire or replace jurors during the penalty phase .
the law also permits each juror to follow his or her personal morality on determining whether to impose a death sentence , as long as the juror can honestly consider it .
howard said he hoped the legislature also would change the law , which permits vague responses during jury selection on whether potential jurors would be willing to impose the death penalty .
victims ' relatives said any nichols victory was hollow .
" i do n't think brian nichols won , " said christina greenway , daughter of the court reporter nichols murdered .
" in his own words , it is not in his dna to stay in prison .
now he can look forward to a life in prison . " .
nichols rose to infamy when he escaped from custody at the fulton county courthouse during his rape trial on march 11 , 2005 , by overpowering his guard , sheriff 's deputy cynthia hall , beating her so badly he left her brain-damaged and blind in one eye .
nichols then took her gun and went to the chambers of superior court judge rowland barnes , who was presiding over his trial , and took the staff captive and seized the gun of another deputy .
minutes later , he shot barnes in the back of the head while he was on the bench hearing a civil matter .
four seconds later , he shot the court reporter , julie ann brandau , in the head , killing her , also .
nichols then escaped and shot and killed deputy sgt. hoyt teasley , who had pursued him outside the courthouse .
nichols committed a series of carjackings before finally escaping downtown atlanta by taking marta to buckhead while police looked for him .
in buckhead , while in search of a hiding place , he committed other assaults before ending up that night at the house that david wilhelm was building a few blocks from lenox mall .
he shot wilhelm , an off-duty u.s. customs agent , emptied his pockets of cash and took his cellphone as he lay paralyzed , dying on the floor .
nichols stole wilhelm 's pickup truck , where he said he found wilhelm 's badge .
whether he knew wilhelm was a federal agent before he killed him could make a difference on whether federal authorities indict him and seek a death penalty in a federal court .
at trial , prosecutors contended nichols ambushed wilhelm and that he did n't have his gun drawn during the confrontation as nichols claimed .
defense lawyers contended that nichols committed the crimes because he suffered from a delusion that made him believe he was leading a slave revolt against an unjust justice system .
nichols , 37 , was an $ 80,000-a-year computer system expert at ups before his life spiraled out of control after his girlfriend of seven years dumped him for infidelity .
he took her captive and raped her in august 2004 - saying he wanted to win her back - and was arrested and spent nine months in jail before the killings .
wilhelm 's widow , candee , took aim at nichols ' parents - who had won praise from the judge as solid citizens - when she addressed the public after the sentencing .
" brian nichols ' parents raised an extremely evil person , " said wilhelm , who was briefly detained during the trial for bringing a pistol into the courthouse .
" i am extremely disappointed that the defendant has been shown the mercy that he did not show on march 11 , 2005 . " .
lead prosecutor kellie hill reminded the crowd that mercy did not equal injustice .
" justice has been served in this case - it absolutely has been , " hill said .
" sometimes we do n't understand the outcome , but we all have to accept it . " .
nichols ' mother , claritha , and father , gene , attended the trial most days for 12 weeks .
they became the focus of testimony about their son 's upbringing , and his mother testified about events leading up to his rape trial on the day he escaped and went on his killing spree .
they sat through the sentencing saturday but left the courthouse before reporters could interview them .
as she came into the courthouse before the sentencing , nichols ' mother expressed their sentiments .
" we just want to fade into obscurity , " she said .
texas prison escapee added to u . s . marshals '15 most wanted' list .
the u . s . marshals have added to their " 15 most wanted “ list of fugitives a man serving three life sentences who escaped custody during his transport from huntsville , texas , to stiles , texas .
during the escape , arcade joseph comeaux , jr . allegedly produced a weapon and fired upon two correctional officers , took them hostage and forced them to drive to baytown , texas , where he restrained the officers in the back of the van , took their firearms and one of their uniforms .
comeaux " s escape is all the more surprising since authorities had mistakenly believed he was paralyzed following a stroke , and was wheelchair bound .
comeaux fled on foot following his escape .
comeaux was in prison after being convicted of aggravated sexual assault of a child and aggravated assault with a deadly weapon .
according to texas authorities , the weapons conviction stemmed from a 1999 incident where he stabbed his wife 17 times while she was visiting him in prison .
a judge in fulton county , ga . , sentenced brian nichols saturday to multiple life prison sentences for his deadly 2005 rampage at fulton courthouse .
superior court judge james bodiford sentenced nichols to seven consecutive life sentences and four sentences of life without parole for the march 11 , 2005 , incident that left four people dead , the atlanta journal-constitution reported .
" you 'll be pleased to know that i 'm not going to lecture too much this morning , " bodiford said .
" i 'm not going to express outrage and i 'm not going to express any feelings might have .
the jury has spoken and i respect the jury .
i think the jury did everything it could to come up with a unanimous sentence . " .
nichols was convicted of overpowering a sheriff 's deputy before killing superior court judge rowland barnes , court reporter julie ann brandau , sheriff 's deputy sgt. hoyt teasley and u.s. customs agent david wilhelm .
the journal-constitution said nichols , who also received an additional sentence of 485 years , offered a show of remorse before his sentence was announced saturday .
" i am sorry .
i just want to say that i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life , " the convicted killer said .
texas convict arcade joseph comeaux jr . , riding in wheelchair , pulls gun on guards , escapes on foot .
thursday , december 3 , 2009 , 9 : 36 am .
rewards totaling $30 , 000 are offered for information leading to texas prison escapee arcade joseph comeaux jr .
department of corrections spokeswoman michelle lyons said thursday that the convicted sex offender was still on the run .
comeaux was in a wheelchair monday when he pulled a gun on two guards during a transfer from a unit in huntsville to one in beaumont .
both guards were released after being forced to drive to the baytown area , where comeaux ran way .
comeaux was serving life in prison for aggravated sexual assault out of brazos county .
an atlanta judge sentenced brian nichols to life in prison saturday morning .
he 's the former kutztown university football player who went on a shooting rampage at an atlanta courthouse in 2005 , killing four people .
the jury was unable to come to a decision after 30 hours of deliberation .
the judge , by law sentenced nichols to consecutive maximum sentences on each of his charges .
while nichols did not recieve the death penalty , he will likely die in prison .
death sentences in georgia require a unanimous decision by a jury .
nichols faced more than 50 charges in the case .
he was on trial for rape in 2005 in an atlanta courtroom when he grabbed a guard 's gun , fatally shooting a judge , court reporter , sherrif 's deputy and later , a federal agent .
'armed and dangerous' texas inmate on the loose .
published november 30 , 2009 .
the texas department of criminal justice is searching for an escaped inmate who is considered armed and dangerous , myfoxhouston . com reports .
officials said arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , took two transport officers hostage on monday morning and then escaped from the vehicle and took off on foot , myfoxhouston . com reports .
comeaux , a 6 - foot , 200 - pound black male , was serving a life sentence for crimes he committed in three texas counties .
he was sentenced to life in prison for indecency with a child , aggravated sexual assault and two counts of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon , myfoxhouston . com reports .
comeaux allegedly handcuffed the officers together in the vehicle and then took off with their weapons , myfoxhouston . com reported .
a judge on saturday sentenced the man who killed four people during a brazen courthouse escape to multiple life sentences with no chance of parole , and to hundreds more years on more than 50 charges .
the man , brian g. nichols , 37 , was found guilty last month of murder and dozens of other counts in the march 2005 rampage that led from a downtown courthouse to an atlanta neighborhood and which ended with his capture the next day in a suburban county .
judge james g. bodiford of superior court handed down the maximum sentence on each charge , to run consecutively .
" if there was any more i could give you , i would , " judge bodiford said .
mr. nichols was spared multiple death sentences when the jury failed to reach a unanimous decision , as required by georgia law , recommending that punishment .
the sentence ends more than three years of efforts to bring mr. nichols to justice since his arrest , frustrating victims ' relatives and angering state legislators over the costs .
mr. nichols escaped on march 11 , 2005 , as he was being escorted to a trial for rape .
he beat a deputy guarding him and stole her gun .
he burst into the courtroom and shot and killed judge rowland barnes ; a court reporter , julie ann brandau ; and sgt. hoyt teasley , a fulton county sheriff 's deputy .
mr. nichols fled downtown atlanta and managed to evade hundreds of police officers overnight .
in the buckhead neighborhood of atlanta , he shot and killed a federal immigration and customs agent , david wilhelm , at a house the agent was renovating .
mr. nichols was captured the next day in suburban gwinnett county after a woman he took hostage , ashley smith robinson , alerted the police .
ms. smith robinson was credited with bringing a peaceful ending to the rampage by appealing to mr. nichols 's religious beliefs and giving him illegal drugs .
mr. nichols , who was raised in baltimore , confessed to the killings but said that he was legally insane and that he believed he was a slave rebelling against his masters .
prosecutors argued that he concocted the delusions to avoid the death penalty .
mr. nichols 's rampage led lawyers and judges to question their safety , and officials around the state re-examined courthouse security measures .
texas lifer escapes prison van near houston .
a texas inmate escaped from a prison van near houston after pulling a gun on two guards who were transporting him between prisons , according to a texas prison statement monday .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , ran away on foot with the guards' guns and wearing one of their gray correctional officer uniforms , the statement from the texas department of criminal justice said .
comeaux was serving a life sentence for indecency with a child , aggravated sexual assault and two counts of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon , it said .
the escape happened near baytown , texas , about 25 miles east of houston , it said .
a georgia judge handed brian nichols today four consecutive life sentences without the possibility for parole sentence today .
he was convicted of killing four people , including a judge in a court room shooting in 2005 .
a court officer was also killed outside the court and an off-duty officer the next day .
" i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life , " nichols , 37 , told the court .
" i 'm giving you the maximum -- every day i could give you , " superior court judge james bodiford said , in the same court where the killing occurred .
" if i could give you more , i would . " .
nichols was on trial for rape when on march 11 , 2005 he overpowered a guard and seized her weapon , killing in the court room judge rowland barnes and the court reporter julie ann brandau ; .
he also was convicted on killing sgt. hoyt teasley outside the courthouse and killing the next day off-duty u.s. customs agent david wilhelm .
nichols said : " i know that the things that i 've done caused a lot of pain , and i am sorry . " .
jurors deadlocked with nine in favor and three against the death sentence .
ironically nichols had offered to plead guilty in return for life behind bars but prosecutors had refused .
escape renews calls for prison agency shake - up .
november 30 , 2009 .
after facing serious questions about how 900 prohibited cell phones were smuggled into texas prisons this year , along with drugs and weapons , the texas department of criminal justice found itself on the defensive again tuesday while trying to find an inmate who escaped despite being shackled to a wheelchair .
tdcj officials could answer few questions about how convicted rapist arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , escaped monday from a prison van in baytown after pulling a gun and handcuffing two transport officers , stealing their three guns and walking away .
he remains on the loose today .
comeaux escaped monday morning as transport officers tried to move him in a tdcj van from the estelle prison unit in huntsville to the stiles unit in beaumont .
he put on one officer's gray uniform and black boots , then stole a 12 - gauge shotgun and two semi - automatic pistols before fleeing on foot , leaving his pistol behind .
a judge on saturday sentenced the man who killed four people in a brazen courthouse escape to multiple life sentences with no chance of parole after a deadlocked jury failed to return a death sentence .
brian nichols , 37 , was found guilty last month of murder and dozens of other counts for the march 2005 rampage that started in a downtown courthouse , led to an atlanta neighborhood and ended with his capture the next day in a suburban county .
he will likely die in prison after superior court judge james bodiford handed down the maximum sentence on each charge .
" if there was any more i could give you , i would , " the judge said .
nichols was spared capital punishment when the jury failed to reach a unanimous decision to condemn him to death row for the murders of a judge , a court reporter , a deputy and a federal agent .
after four days and more than 30 hours of deliberations , the jury was deadlocked at 9-3 , with nine in favor of the death penalty and three voting for life without parole .
nichols , who argued he was mentally insane when he carried out the killings , spoke for the first time in court on saturday .
" i just wanted to say that i know that the things i 've done caused a lot of pain and i 'm sorry , " he said .
" and i just wanted to say that i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life .
that 's it . " .
the sentence caps more than three years of efforts to bring nichols to justice since his arrest that were repeatedly bogged down by legal complications , frustrating victims ' relatives and angering state legislators over the costs .
the rampage prompted attorneys and judges to question their safety and law enforcement around the state to re-examine courthouse security measures .
the deadlocked jury was a setback for prosecutors , who turned down an offer from nichols ' attorneys to plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence .
but district attorney paul howard said he has spoken with u.s. attorneys about a possible death penalty trial against nichols in federal court for the killing of the off-duty federal agent .
howard also said georgia prosecutors need more leeway to strike jurors who are reluctant to vote for the death penalty .
he said jurors have told him that the three holdouts refused to deliberate and one even wore headphones during the closed-door discussions this week .
" the community has spoken , " he said .
" even though we are puzzled and terribly disappointed by the decision , we must accept the conclusion provided by our community . " .
in a tearful post-trial press conference , the families of the victims thanked the prosecutors for going through with the trial , as painful as it was .
" i believe brian nichols did not win .
in his own words , he said it 's not his dna to stay in jail , " said christina greenway , daughter of slain court reporter julie ann brandau .
" which is what he has to look forward to the rest of his life. i 'm not disappointed and i have no regrets . " .
nichols was being escorted to his trial for rape when he beat a deputy guarding him and stole her gun .
he burst into the courtroom and shot and killed superior court judge rowland barnes , brandau and deputy hoyt teasley .
he fled downtown atlanta and managed to evade hundreds of police officers searching for him overnight .
in atlanta 's posh buckhead neighborhood , he shot and killed federal agent david wilhelm at a house the agent was renovating .
the judge , after sentencing nichols to the slew of charges , urged the victims ' of nichols ' crimes to try their best to regroup .
" we 've learned a lot from this horrible tragedy , and as horrible as it was , we need to learn from this and make sure it never happens again , " said bodiford .
the judge offered advice for the prison guards who will handle nichols .
" do not trust mr. nichols ever again .
ever again .
because he can not be trusted . " .
updated saturday , december 05 , 2009 8 : 28 pm .
texas escapee now on u . s . marshal's most wanted list .
last week's escapee from the texas prison system is still at large and is now on the u . s . marshal service's "most wanted" list of fugitives .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . is serving three life sentences .
he escaped last week while being transported from a prison in huntsville to one in beaumont , texas .
comeaux is accused of using a gun which was smuggled in to him for the escape .
he was in prison after being convicted of aggravated sexual assault of a child and aggravated assault with a deadly weapon .
according to texas authorities , the weapons conviction stemmed from a 1999 incident where he stabbed his wife 17 times while she was visiting him in prison .
bettie page , the 1950s pinup and bondage model who provided more than a half-century of inspiration for everybody from madonna to the suicide girls to artist olivia de berardinis ( as well as having her image used on all sorts of merchandise ) , died yesterday in los angeles at the age of 85 .
born in nashville , page left her job as a schoolteacher and secretary to begin a career in modeling in 1950 .
throughout the 50s , she appeared clad in leopard print bikinis , black leather , and wielding whips in publications like wink and titter .
in 1955 , she appeared in a christmas spread for playboy .
she had appeared in thousands of photos when she abruptly walked away from her career at the age of 35 .
in 1995 , page was summoned to testify before the u.s. senate at anti-pornography hearings .
she moved to florida shortly thereafter , became a born-again christian , suffered a nervous breakdown , and was diagnosed as a schizophrenic .
but her legend grew over the years , as her image kept reappearing in popular culture .
she was the inspiration for a character in dale stevens ' 1982 comic series the rocketeer , and the 1991 movie based on the series had actress jennifer connolly in the page-inspired role .
artist olivia de berardinis also immortalized page in several paintings , which have become popular tattoos among modern day rockabilly and goth girls .
page learned of her career resurgence after being released from a mental hospital in 1992 .
bettie page t-shirts , posters , watches , wallets , and more were hot-sellers , and although page refused to have her picture taken the last two decades of her life , she embraced her legacy and occasionally did meet-and-greet signings at events throughout the u.s. and gave her blessing to an official web site , www.bettiepage.com .
page had been hospitalized for the past three weeks for pneumonia .
she was scheduled to be released december 2 , but suffered a heart attack .
her health never recovered , and she passed at away at 6 : 41 last night .
a number of sites have already posted tributes to page .
you can check out the tributes in the l.a. times , at mtv.com , and also at page 's official site .
esther williams , olympic swimmer turned actress and pinup girl , dies at 91 .
esther williams , the swimming champion turned actress who starred in glittering and aquatic technicolor musicals of the 1940s and 1950s , has died .
she was 91 .
williams died early thursday in her sleep , according to her longtime publicist harlan boll .
williams in a bathing suit became a favorite pinup of gi's in world war ii , and her popularity continued afterward .
bettie page , the 1950s pin-up queen and pop culture icon who died on thursday , will be remembered for her indomitable influence on style , fashion , and sexual expression .
but as bettie 's biographer -- and the only one with whom she ever cooperated -- i can tell you that the underground bondage queen also had the unlikely effect of thematically shaping a series of biographical and highly feminist novels about powerful women in history .
in 1991 , intrigued by the resurgence of bettie 's image in venues as diverse as rockabilly clubs , nostalgia rags , and s and m fashion gone mainstream , i wrote a cover story for the l.a. weekly , " in search of bettie page . " .
for nine months , i had tracked down anyone who had ever known her or photographed her .
but bettie herself , the object of much speculation , remained elusive .
most people thought she was dead .
then , as fate would have it , someone gave bettie , who was living in anonymity and seclusion , a copy of the article .
imagine the shock -- a seventy-something senior citizen who ran away from it all forty years prior , suddenly finds that she is famous again .
but she liked it .
though she did not want to re-enter the public arena , bettie sent me a letter praising the piece , calling us " kindred spirits . " .
soon , with co-author james swanson , i embarked on the adventure of writing her biography , sitting down with her for hundreds of hours while she told us her story .
at the time , i was also trying to work out how to tell the stories of women in history who had been either dropped from the record or misinterpreted through the sexist lens of their biographers .
i was to start with kleopatra ( the original greek spelling ) , a victim of roman propaganda remembered for the men with whom she slept rather than for her diplomacy , leadership , and the fact that she had mastered nine languages .
how to present the stories of women who had been victimized without writing a victim story , i kept asking myself ?
how to give women in history who had been reduced to their sexuality the full breadth of their experience without diminishing or demeaning their sexuality ?
so here was bettie page , a woman known only for her sexuality , who had been sexually abused by her father , sexually violated by a gang of strangers , and emotionally battered by a husband .
in the years since she had gone underground , bettie had become a born-again christian working for the billy graham crusade .
surely she would repudiate the work she 'd done as a pin-up and bondage model .
surely she saw herself as a victim of the patriarchy that hijacked her beauty and sensuality and exploited it for its own gratification .
surely i was about to meet a woman who considered herself a victim .
i was wrong .
despite her more unfortunate experiences , bettie never presented herself as a casualty of sexual abuse , and she never used that , or her religious beliefs , which were strong , to renounce the work she 'd done as a model .
moreover , she never denounced sexual expression .
" god created us naked , " she said by way of explaining her total lack of inhibition in the buff .
she purported that bondage modeling " was such fun , " even at times " hilarious , " except for when the elaborate gear became uncomfortable .
and sex itself , she assured me on many occasions , was for her , always pleasurable and joyful .
though she had at times suffered at their hands , she never expressed bitterness toward men .
i know women who are resoundingly more hostile than bettie page just for having suffered a few bad dates .
no , bettie was not going to allow anyone or anything to diminish the joy she experienced when she put that corset on ( or took it off ) and felt her full-blown sexual power .
since the publication of bettie page : life of a pin-up legend , i have published four historical novels with strong female characters .
each , in her own way , was a victim , either of the era in which she lived and its laws , or of individual abusers , or of the general abuses and oppressive nature of the culture at large .
despite the enormous consciousness-raising of the last few decades , we still see attempts to diminish today 's female powerbrokers women like hillary clinton or sarah palin by sexualizing them .
yes , in our porn-saturated society , people are still trying to shame women for -- what ?
having sexual attributes ?
at least we can point to one woman , bettie page , who would n't have it .
bettie 's obits paint a bleak picture of her later years .
but i found that , despite her trials , she had retained a zest for life and always took pleasure in memories of the work that she 'd done .
i hope that bettie is remembered for her sexual joy , and for the gleeful spirit she brought to sexual imagery , whether she was frolicking on the beach or being ball-gagged and spanked , rather than for being a victim .
a female friend of mine said this morning , " bettie page did more for sexual expression than alfred kinsey. " amen , sister .
for all the countless ( and valuable ) mountains of scholarly and feminist writing that have influenced my thinking and my portrayal of women , i still look to a lady who said it all by looking into the camera and defying anyone to tell her she was bad or wrong .
amen to you , too , bettie .
rest in peace .
legendary aquatic musical star esther williams dies at 91 .
june 6th , 2013 7 : 38pm edt .
championship swimmer - turned - legendary hollywood actress esther williams has died .
the star of such mgm movie hits as “ take me out to the ball game , " "jupiter's darling" and "million dollar mermaid , " passed away in beverly hills , calif . , on thursday at the age of 91 .
the california native , who once held the record in the 100 meter freestyle , was promoted as "the girl you will dream about ! " in the film that made her a household name , "bathing beauty , " which was released shortly after d - day in 1944 , making her one of the top pin - up girls of u . s . servicemen serving in world war ii .
williams' publicist , harlan boll , confirmed her death to the associated press on thursday .
yesterday in los angeles , pin-up icon bettie page succumbed to complications from a heart attack suffered almost three weeks ago .
few women in modern history have incited such lust and reverence in men and women alike .
to the rockabilly culture , she embodied the ideal woman - voluptuous and healthy , with that leveling sneer .
she seemed to dare you to not stare at her .
her hairstyle launched a thousand girls to slice off their bangs and get out the black dye .
literally tens of thousands of women are walking around today as perfect bettie clones of all shapes and sizes .
with her nude photoshoots , the bondage angle and her defiance in the face of censorship , she was a precursor to the '70s feminist movement - '50s punk rock in heels and garters .
page has been the inspiration for dozens of songs all across the musical landscape , but it was the rockabilly guys that took to her the most ; not to mention female-fronted bands like the horrorpops or even pop 's katy perry .
even amy winehouse 's look in the beginning was a derivative of page .
she was the wholesome face of america 's kinky secret -- even if no one saw that face for half a century .
bettie page , the notorious southern gal-turned-dominatrix-turned pin-up-queen-turned born again christian , died thursday at age 85 .
the details of her death are known .
she had been hospitalized in los angeles for four weeks due to pneumonia , only to suffer from a heart attack .
far less is known of her life -- at least the last five decades of it .
in 1957 , page disappeared from the flash of the cameras and the public spotlight .
she 'd found religion , became a recluse , and lost contact with friends and associates .
but in the short time she donned panties and garters , brandished a whip and a whip-smart attitude , she was the queen of kink .
page , you see , was to erotica what elvis was to rock 'n ' roll .
no , she was n't the first pin-up .
she was n't even the best looking .
but she had " that thing " that could take what was once a dark art form into the american mainstream .
unlike elvis , though , page never got bloated .
she checked out in her prime .
she did n't even allow to have her photo taken .
she remained frozen in time .
yet , her image continues to strut its black stilettos through pop culture .
" bettie page " remains short-hand for a haircut , an image and a cult that includes everyone and everything -- from designer vivienne westwood to rockabilly hounds to hot-rodders , comic books , madonna , goths , neo-burlesque performers and devil-may-care types .
the nashville , tenn. , girl never imagined she 'd ever stir such a fuss .
" she looked so fresh and wholesome , " said bunny yeager , whose photographs of page appeared in virtually every men 's magazine in the nineteen fifties .
" she was n't trying to be seductive ; she was the girl next door . " .
one big difference between page and most neighbors , said yeager .
" she felt more comfortable in the nude than in clothes . " .
her story of unintentional notoriety began in 1950 , when she boarded a greyhound bound for manhattan .
within months , her innocent face and curvy body made her the hit of the " camera-club circuit . " .
" back then , you 'd have a bunch of guys with cameras travel by bus to private houses to photograph girls , " yeager said .
an aesthetic was born , one that mixed mundane suburbia with raw sexuality .
by 1952 , page was breaking taboos , posing with a ball strapped in her mouth , whip in hand and devilish look on face -- in photos and movies that featured stripping , spanking and faux lesbianism that straddled burlesque and pornography .
page was hardly tawdry , though , yeager said .
" she was so at ease , so wholesome . " .
the traits made a page a natural in natural settings captured by yeager , who met page in 1954 .
yeager 's shots of her in a jungle swimsuit with two cheetahs are '50s exotica par excellence : a mix of the innocence and the wild that shot through the veins of american sexuality , not to mention pin-up art , hot-rod aesthetics and tiki culture .
playboy magazine not only featured page pictorials ; it adopted her " girl next door " charm as its manifesto .
page 's good-girl-bad-deed notoriety turned her into a marilyn monroe with black , wicked hair .
too wicked for the u.s. government , which condemned photos of her taken by irving klaw as " obscene and lewd . " .
the controversy drove page from modeling and into the arms of jesus .
" one night while walking the beach she saw a neon cross on a church and walked inside , " yeager said .
she never walked out : page became born again , moved to california , and disappeared from the pages and the public eye .
but her image never stopped titillating .
you see it in rock clubs , roller derby games , fashion shows .
and you see it in an america 's own sexual conflicts -- a nation with a puritanical past and a closet full of sin .
even in death , bettie page is the missing link between the two .
pinup icon bettie page died thursday evening at a hospital in los angeles after having suffered a heart attack on dec. 2 and spending time on life support , according to her official site .
page was born on april 22 , 1923 , in nashville , tenn .
she began modeling in 1950 when she met new york city police officer and photographer jerry tibbs .
according to page 's official website , by 1951 she was appearing in the men 's magazines eyefull , wink , titter , and beauty parade .
in 1955 , hugh hefner asked page to pose in a playboy centerfold , a move that would help her seal her popularity and financial security decades later .
page ended her modeling career in 1957 after turning to christianity .
despite never posing in sexually explicit poses ( only nude photos ) , page became an unwitting sex symbol and a face of the sexual revolution in the nineteen sixties .
her popularity rose again in the early 1990s but her insecurities kept her out of the spotlight .
she wanted her fans to remember her as she was in her heyday .
adding to her bewilderment was the fact that this new popularity surge happened while page was institutionalized in a southern california mental facility after attacking a woman with a knife .
when she was released in 1992 , she found herself in the spotlight again , thanks in part to a movie called the rocketeer , which played off of pulp fiction characters of the 30s and 40s , including the image of bettie page .
in spite of her renewed popularity , page was n't receiving any royalty payments from her images .
page signed on with agent james swanson , who in turn set her up with curtis management group , who fought to get her the pay she deserved .
page came out of hiding in 2003 when she agreed to be photographed for playboy .
this was her last public photograph .
several biographies have been made , including her official biography bettie page .
the life of a pin-up legend , and a biography by richard foster called the real bettie page .
the truth about the queen of pinup .
a movie called " the notorious bettie page " was released in 2005 , which told the pinup 's story between the 1930s and the nineteen fifties .
today , women still love to emulate her old-fashioned look , specifically her long black hair with bangs and red lipstick. some people feel as if these women are unoriginal and failed to find an identity of their own , while others see this as the ultimate form of flattery .
page was survived by her sister joyce wallace of georgia , and her brother jack page , who lives in nashville , tennessee .
bettie page , the pin-up model whose seductive photographs in magazines titillated and outraged americans in the 1950s , has died , her agent said .
she was 85 .
" with deep personal sadness i must announce that my dear friend and client bettie page passed away at 6:41pm pst this evening ( 0241 gmt friday ) in a los angeles hospital , " her agent mark roesler said thursday in a statement .
page suffered a heart attack nine days earlier and never regained consciousness .
" she captured the imagination of a generation of men and women with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality , " roesler said .
page , with shoulder-length jet-black hair and bangs , combined sweetness and sexuality in a series of now-legendary posters and photographs in the 1950s , including as one of the inaugural centerfolds in hugh heffner 's new magazine playboy , which named her " the model of the century . " .
the nice-naughty image -- a sweet and beguiling smile matched with a curvacious figure and page 's propensity for burlesque films and bondage images -- proved highly combustible on the eve of america 's sexual revolution .
in the late 1950s page became one of the most photographed women in the world , and her popularity soared even as she left the limelight nearly half a century ago .
page later said she was puzzled by her effect on pop culture .
" i have no idea why i 'm the only model who has had so much fame so long after quitting work , " she told the los angeles times in 2006 .
in her old age , she refused to be photographed , preserving her mythic status .
" i want to be remembered , as i was when i was young and in my golden times ... .
i want to be remembered as the woman who changed people 's perspectives concerning nudity in its natural form . " .
born in 1923 in nashville , tennessee , bettie mae page was one of six children from an impoverished family .
after earning her university degree , she worked as a secretary and aspired to hollywood stardom but never made it as an actress .
a screen test at 20th century fox went badly , with a producer offering her a break in return for sexual favors -- she refused .
filmmaker and aviator howard hughes also doggedly pursued page but she rebuffed him as well .
" i never returned any of his calls , " she once said .
" i guess people will say i made a mistake .
but sex is part of love , and you should n't go around doing it unless you are in love .
i certainly did n't . " .
she posed for her first pin-up photos in 1947 and by the 1950s provocative pictures of her in bikinis or sexy lingerie were wildly popular , tacked up on the walls of locker rooms , student halls , offices and military barracks .
although the pictures -- which sometimes played on bondage themes -- seem tame by contemporary standards , they raised alarms in a more conservative era , prompting us senators to investigate pornography .
page was subpoenaed to appear before a senate committee headed by prominent democrat estes kefauver but in the end never had to testify .
for page , the bondage photos were harmless fun .
" but honestly , who could take any of this seriously ? " she said years later , according to her official website .
" i never understood how anyone believed those poses were sexy .
to be tied up ?
i do n't get it . " .
by 1958 , at the peak of her fame , page vanished from public view and her modeling days ended .
she became a born-again christian but struggled with marital problems and suffered from depression and violent mood swings .
in 1992 , she left a california mental hospital having been diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic .
in the 1990s , a lawyer who later became her agent , mark roesler , used page 's famous images for a lucrative licensing and merchandising deal that helped her financially and renewed her fame .
the merchandise , including a clothing line , along with a film in 2005, .
" the notorious bettie page , " helped introduce her to a new generation in the united states and abroad .
" she was reclusive and private , so without intending to be , without quite understanding how , her modeling work made her a pivotal figure in the sexual revolution that began in the 1950s , " roesler said .
friday , june 7 , 2013 .
hollywood " s mermaid esther williams dies .
champion swimmer turned top box - office draw in 40s and 50s .
esther williams , the swimming champion turned actress who starred in glittering and aquatic technicolour musicals of the 1940s and 1950s , has died .
she was 91 .
williams , whose experiences as a young swimming champion led to a career of hollywood “ aqua - musicals " designed just for her , died yesterday in beverly hills , california , at the age of 91 , her spokesman said .
she died peacefully in her sleep and had been in declining health due to old age , spokesman harlan boll said .
it was the pool — and wartime pinup pictures of her in bathing suits — that made her popular .
williams in a bathing suit became a favourite pinup of us people in world war ii , and her popularity continued afterward .
bettie page , the raven-haired pin-up whose naughty-but-nice romps with whips , garters and high heels titillated a generation of young men in the post-war years , has died at the age of 85 after suffering a heart attack earlier this month and slipping into a coma .
her career , which some claim laid the foundations for the sexual revolution that swept america in the 1960s , started almost by accident after she discovered that posing for amateur photographers in provocative poses and risque attire made her more money than secretarial work .
ms page 's fame was set after she was adopted by irving klaw and his sister , paula , in 1951 .
the couple ran a manhattan mail order business offering dirty pictures .
later , she was featured by playboy as a centrefold , including a 1955 image of her winking under a santa hat .
" bettie was one of the magazine 's early playmates , and became an iconic figure , influencing notions of beauty and fashion , " hugh hefner , the magazine 's founder , said on hearing of her death .
" her passing is very sad . " .
ms page disappeared for decades at the end of the fifties , suffering serial broken marriages and devoting herself to christianity .
even in her twilight years she suffered bouts of depression and ill health but was rediscovered in the late nineteen eighties .
she would occasionally make public appearances to sign photographs of herself as popular interest in her suddenly took off again .
to her astonishment , ms page has recently attained cult status .
madonna , uma thurman and demi moore are among contemporary stars who have at some time adopted bettie page poses , while in 2006 a movie , the notorious bettie page , featured gretchen mol in the title role .
ms page had been admitted to hospital originally for treatment for pneumonia and was set to be released and sent home on 2 december when she suffered her heart attack .
a representative said she never recovered consciousness and died late on thursday .
" she captured the imagination of a generation of men and women with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality , " her agent , mark roesler , said yesterday .
" she is the embodiment of beauty . " .
even though she conceded to the occasional public event , she never agreed to having her photograph taken again .
" i do n't want to be photographed in my old age , " she said in 1998 .
" i feel the same way with old movie stars .
it makes me sad .
we want to remember them when they were young . " .
after her early career peaked , ms page became exhibit number one in a congressional hearing into so-called immoral activities in washington .
the controversy prompted her disappearance from public view .
it was while living in florida that she had her born-again experience and committed herself to the church and to the ministry of the rev billy graham .
in her later years , she defended the trade she pioneered .
" i never thought it was shameful .
i felt normal .
it was better than pounding a typewriter eight hours a day , which gets monotonous , " she told playboy in 1998 .
as for being featured undressed , that seemed fine too .
" god approves of nudity , " she said .
" adam and eve in the garden of eden , they were naked as jaybirds . " .
hollywood's mermaid , esther williams dies at 91 .
june 06 , 2013 .
esther williams , whose experiences as a young swimming champion led to a career of hollywood "aqua - musicals" designed just for her , died on thursday in beverly hills , california , at the age of 91 , her spokesman said .
williams , one of the biggest box - office stars of the 1940s and 1950s , died peacefully in her sleep and had been in declining health due to old age , spokesman harlan boll said .
it was the pool - and wartime pinup pictures of her in bathing suits - that made her popular .
bettie page , whose trademark raven hair and risque lingerie and bondage pin-up photos made her a cult favorite , died thursday night at a los angeles hospital - nine days after suffering a heart attack .
she was 85 .
page was born betty mae page in nashville , tennessee on april 22 , 1923 .
smart and ambitious as a teenager , she was the salutatorian of her high school graduation class and was voted " most likely to succeed . " .
she earned a scholarship to attend george peabody college , where she studied acting .
page 's famous pin-up days lasted from 1951-1957 , where her slinky , curvy and scantily-clad or nude body graced magazines including wink , beauty parade , twitter and playboy .
the heff crowned page playmate of the month in january of 1955 .
the same year she was also named , " miss pinup girl of the world . " .
her photo and film work often depicted page in pin-up , bondage or sadomasochistic themes , including the iconic ( and highest selling ) images of the model shown gagged and bound in a web of ropes from the leopard bikini bound film .
heffner told the ap on thursday , " i think that she was a remarkable lady , an iconic figure in pop culture who influenced sexuality , taste in fashion , someone who had a tremendous impact on our society ... .
she was a very dear person . " .
page married twice ; the first marriage to navy man billy neal lasted from 1943 to 1947 , and her second to armond walterson in 1958 to 1963 .
after the collapse of her second marriage , she suffered a nervous breakdown and soon after became a born-again christian .
after attending bible school , she wanted to serve as a missionary but was turned down because she had been divorced .
instead , she worked full-time for evangelist billy graham 's ministry .
bettie 's life and photos enjoyed a revival of interest in 1976 with the publishing of the book , a nostalgic look at bettie page .
page was also celebrated in the 2006 hbo movie , the notorious bettie page , starring gretchen mol .
esther williams , who swam to stardom in the 1940's , dies at 91 .
june 6 , 2013 11 : 34pm .
pinup girl williams was the star of wwii - era "aquatic musicals" and helped make the sport of synchronized swimming popular .
bettie page , the 1950s pin-up model who helped set the stage for the 1960s sexual revolution , has died .
she was 85 .
her agent , mark roesler , said page died yesterday at a los angeles hospital after suffering a heart attack on december 2 .
she never regained consciousness .
page , who became religious and suffered depression in later life , spending years in a mental institution , inspired the 2005 film the notorious bettie page .
she became a cult figure for magazine photographs of her bikinis and see-through lingerie , which were tacked on walls across the us .
after resurfacing in the 1990s , she occasionally granted interviews but refused to allow her picture to be taken .
" i do n't want to be photographed in my old age , " she said in 1998 .
" i feel the same way with old movie stars ... .
it makes me sad .
we want to remember them when they were young . " .
her photos included a centrefold in the january 1955 issue of the then fledgling playboy magazine , as well as controversial sadomasochistic poses .
the latter helped contribute to her mysterious disappearance from the public eye , which lasted for decades and included years during which she battled mental illness and became a born-again christian .
playboy founder hugh hefner said .
" she was a remarkable lady , an iconic figure in pop culture who influenced sexuality , taste in fashion , someone who had a tremendous impact on our society .
she was a very dear person . " .
roesler said page had been in hospital for three weeks with pneumonia and was about to be released when she suffered the heart attack on december 2 .
her career began in october 1950 when she took a break from her job as a secretary in a new york office to take a walk along the beach at coney island .
an amateur photographer named jerry tibbs admired the 27-year-old 's firm , curvy body and asked her to pose .
looking back on the career that followed , she told playboy in 1998 .
" i never thought it was shameful .
i felt normal .
it 's just that it was much better than pounding a typewriter eight hours a day . " .
nudity did n't bother her , she said , explaining .
" god approves of nudity .
adam and eve in the garden of eden , they were naked as jaybirds . " .
they cut her hair into the dark bangs that became her signature and posed her in spiked heels and little else .
she was photographed with a whip in her hand , and in one session she was spreadeagled between two trees , her feet dangling .
" i thought my arms and legs would come out of their sockets , " she said later .
moralists denounced the photos as perversion , and senator estes kefauver of tennessee , page 's home state , launched a congressional investigation .
page quickly retreated from public view , later saying she was hounded by federal agents who waved her nude photos in her face .
and she said she believed that , at 34 , her days as " the girl with the perfect figure " were nearly over .
she moved to florida in 1957 and married a much younger man , after an early marriage to her high school sweetheart had ended in divorce .
her second marriage also failed , as did a third , and she suffered a nervous breakdown .
born on april 22 , 1923 , in nashville , tennessee , page said she grew up in a family so poor " we were lucky to get an orange in our christmas stockings " .
esther williams - esther williams : "million dollar mermaid" swimmer and actress dies aged 91 .
07 june 2013 .
golden girl of screen and pool , esther williams , has died peacefully in her sleep aged 91 .
it has been confirmed by publicist harlan boll that the 1940s hollywood actress and record - setting swimmer , esther williams , died on 6th june in her sleep .
stunning williams quickly achieved movie success and pin - up status , due to her swimmer's physique being regularly snapped in bathing suits .
famous 1950s pin up star betty page has died in los angeles , aged 85 .
the iconic model known for her provocative poses was credited for helping to pave the way for the sexual revolution of the nineteen sixties .
she was admitted to hospital last month suffering from pnuemonia , and last week suffered a heart attack and never regained consciousness .
her agent mark roesler siad : " with deep personal sadness i must announce that my dear friend and client bettie page passed away at 18:41 this evening ( 02:41 gmt friday ) in a los angeles hospital " .
" she captured the imagination of a generation with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality ... .
she is the embodiment of beauty " .
hugh hefner was reported as saying about page .
" i think that she was a remarkable lady , an iconic figure in pop culture who influenced sexuality , taste in fashion , someone who had a tremendous impact on our society " .
page was married three times but had no children .
actress esther williams dies at 91 .
10 : 10 am pdt 6 / 6 / 2013 .
the champion swimmer starred in such films as "bathing beauty , " "take me out to the ball game" and "million dollar mermaid . " .
actress and champion swimmer esther williams , who showcased a combination of glamour and athleticism by starring in several spectacular and splashy mgm musicals of the 1940s and '50s , has died .
she was 91 .
williams died peacefully in her sleep thursday in beverly hills , family spokesman harlan boll announced .
legendary pinup queen bettie page died of pneumonia at the age of 85 in a los angeles , california , hospital thursday , a week after suffering a heart attack , according to her agent .
pinup queen bettie page was credited with helping to usher in the sexual revolution .
" she captured the imagination of a generation of men and women with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality , " said agent mark roesler in a written statement .
" she is the embodiment of beauty . " .
page , said to be one of the most photographed people of the past century , became a recluse in recent decades .
yet , her images continued to be used around the world to market bettie page action figures , clothing lines and other merchandise .
" her popularity as an underground , guilty pleasures phenomenon has continued to soar despite the fact that the reclusive page disappeared almost a half century ago , leading many to believe that one of the most photographed individuals of the 20th century was already dead . " .
roesler said .
the web site , bettiepage.com , logs about 20 million hits a month , roesler said .
a tvguide.com poll recently placed bettie page as the " ultimate sex goddess , " outscoring others such as marilyn monroe .
page was born to a poor family in tennessee on april 22 , 1923 .
while her birth certificate spelled her name " betty , " she changed the spelling later in life to " bettie . " .
at a time when few women pursued a college education , page earned a bachelor of arts degree in education from peabody college in tennessee in 1944 , according to her official biography .
her teaching career , however , was hampered by her looks , she said .
" i could n't control my students , especially the boys , " she is quoted as saying .
after her modeling career ended , page returned to peabody college to work on a master 's degree , the bio said .
her southern drawl and a refusal to sleep with a hollywood producer hampered her acting career , according to her bio .
" i did n't like his looks , " page said .
" i would n't have gone to bed with him anyway .
he was a creep .
he drove off in his big car and scolded me, .
'you 'll be sorry . ' .
i was n't . " .
page said she regretted not accepting studio boss jack warner 's offer of another screen-test , but it came while she was trying to save her marriage to her first husband , billy neal .
her modeling breakthrough began after she divorced neal in 1947 when she met a police officer whose hobby was photography .
he suggested the black bangs , which became her trademark , her bio said .
not long after , her images were everywhere , gracing magazine covers and locker pin-ups .
page wore nothing but a santa hat in playboy 's january 1955 centerfold .
playboy founder hugh hefner said her appearance in his magazine 's first year was a milestone .
" she became , in time , an american icon , her winning smile and effervescent personality apparent in every pose , " hefner said .
" a kinky connection was added by irving klaw 's spanking , fetish and bondage photos , which became part of the bettie page mystique , " hefner said .
" they were playful parodies that are now perceived as the early inspiration for madonna 's excursions into the realm of sexual perversion . " .
perhaps the most memorable photos of page were her bondage poses , which she said were all pretend .
" i never understood how anyone believed those poses were sexy , " she later said .
" to be tied up ?
i do n't get it . " .
" she was a remarkable woman , truly someone that changed the social norms , not only here in this country , but also around the world , " roesler said .
" while jackie robinson was changing the racial attitudes , bettie page was changing our attitudes on sex .
she became a james dean type of 'rebel ' figure as she allowed people to be less inhibited and look at sex in a different way . " .
saucy photos of paige in skimpy clothing or none at all helped to lead the way for the sexual revolution of the nineteen sixties .
page suddenly disappeared from the scene in 1958 .
it was only decades later revealed that she re-emerged to explain that she underwent a religious conversion and moved to florida .
her life took a dark turn starting in 1978 after her third marriage failed , roesler said .
page went through " some mental instability , violent mood swings , and serious trouble with the law " and was eventually diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic , according to her bio .
page reappeared in public in december 2003 for playboy 's 50th anniversary party , where she made a grand entrance with anna nicole smith .
it was the only time in the past 50 years that page allowed her photograph to be taken , roesler said .
a private funeral service is planned for tuesday .
page will buried at westwood cemetery in los angeles , just a few feet away from monroe .
june 06 , 2013 .
esther williams , swimming star , dies at 91 .
bettie page , the 1950s pinup girl whose natural looks and risque fetish poses triggered a cult following four decades after she turned her back on modeling , has died .
she was 85 .
page died late yesterday in a los angeles hospital after suffering a heart attack more than a week ago , her agent mark roesler said in a statement .
" she captured the imagination of a generation of men and women with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality , " said roesler .
" she is the embodiment of beauty . " .
the busty " dark angel " from tennessee was one of the most- photographed women of her era , striking a chord with men 's camera clubs and sparking outrage in congress for her nude snapshots .
page 's image , complete with black hair bangs and naughty smile , appeared on magazine covers , playing cards , wallpaper and comic books in the 1990s , inspiring retrospective tributes from celebrities such as madonna , demi moore and uma thurman .
the college-educated beauty queen who disappeared from the public eye after 1957 was unaware of her renewed popularity until " entertainment tonight " broadcast a television segment about her almost 40 years later .
she had disowned her glamour lifestyle after becoming a born-again christian in 1959 , and later battled mental illness in florida and california .
" bettie page is the last great icon of the 1950s , " james swanson , co-author of " bettie page .
the life of a pinup legend , " said in a 1996 interview with nbc 's real life program .
" like james dean and marilyn monroe , she brought something modern to the era .
she 's like the girl next door , the greatest american pin-up and that 's why she 's eternal. " .
early years .
bettie mae page was born on april 22 , 1923 , in nashville , tennessee .
the second of six children , she helped raise her younger siblings while the family traveled around the u.s. in search of work .
page 's mother placed her daughters in an orphanage after divorcing her husband , who was sentenced to two years in an atlanta penitentiary for stealing a policeman 's car .
at the age of 10 , page began to mimic actresses and perform songs for the other girls at the orphanage before her mother , who worked as a hairdresser during the day and in a laundry at night , reclaimed her children after a year .
page took refuge from her traumatic family life in local community centers , where she learned to cook , sew and study hard enough to top her class at high school .
she was a member of the drama club , helped edit the school newspaper and was voted " the most likely to succeed . " .
she won a $ 100 scholarship to peabody college in nashville , where she graduated with a bachelor of arts degree in education .
three husbands .
in february 1943 , she married billy neal , the first of her three husbands , and moved to san francisco , where she had her first modeling assignment for a local furrier .
while neal served in the mariana islands during world war ii , page lived in nashville , miami and port au prince , haiti .
in 1947 , she filed for divorce and moved to new york .
three years later while walking on coney island , she met police officer jerry tibbs who had an interest in photography and assembled page 's first portfolio .
tibbs introduced her to camera clubs , men 's hobbyist groups that sometimes acted as a front for erotic photography , and page 's career took off .
she then appeared in publisher robert harrison 's girlie magazines wink , flirt and beauty parade .
in january 1955 , she was the centerfold model in hugh hefner 's fledgling playboy magazine , one month before actress jayne mansfield appeared as the publication 's playmate .
" she had a saucy innocence that is both contemporary and provocative , and also nostalgic , " hefner said .
media mogul .
page , who claimed she ignored media mogul howard hughes 's request for a screen test in 1955 because she did n't want to sleep with him , also studied acting under herbert berghoff at sea cliff summer theater on long island .
the apprenticeship helped her gain parts in new york stage productions and on television , once appearing on " the jackie gleason show . " .
some of her most celebrated snapshots were taken in 1954 during a session with photographer bunny yeager at the africa usa wildlife park in boca raton , florida .
they included nude poses with two cheetahs and scenes in a leopard-patterned jungle outfit that she made herself .
her " dark angel " image stemmed from bondage and fetish sessions for irving klaw 's movie star news .
klaw , who paid $ 80 for four hours ' work at his studio in greenwich village , new york , required sadomasochistic shots to meet the demand of high- profile , educated clients .
his sister paula created the sets and helped page develop the fetish image .
'very sweet ' .
" paula was one of the nicest women i 've ever known in my life , " page said .
" only paula was allowed to tie us up .
she was very gentle , caring and considerate .
she never tied any ropes too tight .
she was very sweet . " .
a congressional investigation initiated by tennessee senator estes kefauver in 1955 called page as a witness and put klaw out of business , though he had no case to answer because his models were never nude .
the evidence of obscenity had included more- explicit poses that page had done for camera clubs after a drinking session one night at a party .
the congressional probe is said to have contributed to her decision to give up modeling .
throughout the 1960s , page attended bible schools in los angeles , chicago and oregon , helping teenage mothers and visiting jails .
her breakdown in 1972 after divorcing third husband harry lear led to four months ' treatment in florida 's jackson memorial hospital and 20 months in patton state hospital in san bernardino , california .
she also had numerous run-ins with the law , including a charge of assault with a deadly weapon after brandishing a knife at her landlady who did n't provide page with rent receipts .
pop-culture revival .
page 's pop-culture revival emanated from artwork by robert blue and olivia de berardinis , who drew on her fantasy and fetish work .
david stevens also featured page in " the rocketeer " comics from the early 1980s , prompting an avalanche of similar publications based on her persona .
in later years , she lived in california and collected royalties from her work as a model after signing with curtis management group .
in 2005 , time warner inc. and hbo films released " the notorious bettie page , " a feature film starring gretchen mol as page .
page avoided the camera lens after her modeling years , though she was photographed with hefner at playboy 's 50th anniversary celebration in 2003 .
" i want people to remember me as i was , " she said in a playboy interview in 1998 .
page was divorced three times and had no children .
bettie page , one of entertainment 's original sex kittens , the 1950s pin-up queen who many credit with having paved the way for the sexual revolution of the following decade , passed away thursday , december 11 , at age 85 .
bettie page died thursday of pneumonia at a los angeles area hospital , longtime agent mark roesler said .
she had suffered a heart attack earlier in december and never regained consciousness .
he said he and page 's family agreed to take her off life support .
roesler described her as " the embodiment of beauty , " and enthused that she " captured the imagination of a generation of men and women with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality . " .
bettie page 's signature raven-black long hair , her bangs , the red lipstick , her full , seductively rounded body and her provocative poses made her into a bona fide pin-up queen in the nineteen fifties .
her fame endured throughout the decades , even after she retreated from the spotlight and struggled with mental illness , moved around the country and became a born-again christian .
she was born betty mae page on april 22 , 1923 in nashville , tennessee , in an impoverished family with six children .
despite being confronted with an abusive father who eventually went to prison and having to live in orphanages at times , page grew up a great fan of hollywood movies and was successful in school , as salutatorian of her high school graduating class .
her classmates voted her " most likely to succeed . " .
she received an arts degree with peabody college in nashville and started modeling in the 1940s after moving to san francisco with her first husband .
they divorced in 1947 and page continued her modeling work in new york .
as chance would have it , photos from a shoot with miami photographer bunny yeager ended up in the pages of playboy .
this would forever change page 's life , as she became on of the two-year-old magazine 's first centerfolds in the january 1955 issue .
kneeling before a christmas tree , wearing a santa hat and a playful wink ( and that 's all ) and holding a christmas tree ornament , playboy founder hugh hefner described the layout as " a milestone in the history of the magazine . " .
a few years later , page modeled in bondage and sadomasochistic poses .
this caused great controversy , as the photographs were criticized by some as perversion and a congressional investigation was launched into pornography .
by the late 1950s , bettie page had virtually disappeared from the public eye , having retreated to focus on her own personal life .
she became a born-again christian and worked for billy graham 's ministry , among others .
she married two more times yet both unions failed .
beginning with the 1970s , she battled mental illness and was diagnosed as paranoid schizophrenic .
during her retreat from the spotlight , page was completely oblivious of the fascination she had ignited in the public .
she made a comeback almost two decades later , signing memorabilia at conventions and occasionally granted interviews .
she refused to have her photograph taken .
page had no children .
a private funeral service will be held tuesday , dec. 16 , at westwood memorial cemetery .
esther williams dead : technicolor star dies at age 91 .
06 / 06 / 13 07 : 05 pm et edt .
the self - described "million dollar mermaid , " whose wholesome beauty , shapely figure and aquatic skills launched an entire genre of movies – the technicolor "aqua musicals" – died thursday at 91 .
she also was a favorite swimsuit pinup for gi's in world war ii , and a refreshing presence among mgm's stellar gallery – warm , breezy , with a frankness and self - deprecating humor that delighted interviewers .
as news of her death spread thursday , pinup shots of her circulated on twitter .
lamas' son , actor lorenzo lamas , tweeted thursday : "my stepmom esther williams passed peacefully this morning .
many people were shocked and saddened to learn that beloved pin-up icon bettie page passed away yesterday in los angeles after lingering in a coma for a week following a heart attack .
she was 85 .
personally , i was n't surprised because i thought she died several years ago .
page is best known by her fans for her risque bondage films and pictures , and her infamous sense of style , which continues to influence everyone from mortician goth girls to rockabilly cholas in my high school to dita von teese , who 's complete act is utterly ripped off from her .
to me , she 'll always be the kooky , naive christian portrayed by gretchen mol in the notorious bettie page .
but more than that , she was trailblazer for sexy unconventional women everywhere .
without her , the suicide girls would n't exist , although it 's questionable whether that 's a real loss .
i chose the above picture to memorialize her because everyone loves monkeys .
rip bettie !
i 'll drink a martini and listen to a cramps song in your memory tonight .
esther williams , swimming champion , actress , pin - up icon dies ; fans and family mourn .
june 6 , 2013 3 : 05 pm edt .
esther williams , swimming champion , actress , and pin - up icon , has died .
she was 91 .
williams , 91 , passed away early thursday in her sleep , according to her publicist .
throughout wwii , she was a popular pinup for gis , and her personality and self - deprecating wit kept her popular afterwards .
fans and family mourn her passing , but williams had a long , full life .
t-mobile has officially announce that they will launch the new rim blackbery curve 8900 sometime in mid-february .
previously , the date of february 11 was leaked .
the blackberry curve 8900 has a full-qwerty keyboard , gps , wi-fi and 512mhz processor .
it looks like the device does not support 3g but does have world quad band support .
the 3.2-megapixel camera has image stabilization , digital zoom , flash and the ability to record video and play video , a music player , a 3.5mm stereo headset jack and headset , and a hot-swappable microsd/sdhc memory card slot with a 256mb card inserted that accept up to 16 gb .
t-mobile customers can get mobile coverage and unlimited nationwide wi-fi calling with t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot calling .
t - mobile will carry the blackberry q10 , business registration begins april 29th .
posted apr 24th , 2013 at 12 : 28 pm .
more details on the blackberry q10's release in the us are starting to surface .
t - mobile confirmed in an email that its business customers will have the opportunity to register for the device starting next week on april 29th , with availability and pricing details to follow "at a later date . " .
general consumers will likely have to wait a little longer , if t - mobile follows the same launch strategy that it did with the z10 .
of course , registration doesn't actually equate to pre - orders or actually purchasing the phone yet - - all we've heard from official channels is that it'll be coming towards the end of may - - but it's still a solid confirmation that qwerty fans will at least be able to get their bb10 on in the very near future .
t-mobile usa has just confirmed the numerous rumors that it will introduce the latest model in the blackberry curve series next month .
" with rich multimedia capabilities , exceptional mobile email and messaging features , enhanced web browsing , a premium phone and easy access to social networking communities , including facebook , flickr , and myspace.com , the blackberry curve 8900 helps you make the most of a busy lifestyle that spans well beyond normal business hours , " said mark guibert , vice president , corporate marketing , research in motion .
an overview of the blackberry curve 8900 .
the blackberry curve 8900 -- formerly known as the javelin -- will have a full qwerty keyboard and a 2.44-inch , hvga + ( 480 by 360 pixel ) display .
it will be the thinnest and lightest blackberry with a full keyboard .
this quad-band gsm smartphone will not have 3g , but it will include wi-fi b/g and bluetooth .
it will support t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot calling service -- which uses wi-fi voip -- as well as unlimited nationwide calling to five people with the myfaves service .
this smartphone will also have a 512 mhz processor , gps receiver , a 3.2 mpx camera , and a 1400 mahr battery .
it will include a microsd card slot and be bundled with a 256 mb card .
more information on the blackberry curve 8900 is available on rim 's website .
t-mobile usa says it will release this smartphone some time next month. rumors say that the debut could be as early as feb. 11 .
pricing for this model is not yet known .
rumors have been floating for weeks now and we knew the 8900 would be coming sometime in early '09 and tonight t-mobile has made it official .
however , the 8900 aka curve ii aka javelin will not be hitting store shelves on the 11th or 18th according to the press release .
t-mobile is being coy and saying it 's coming sometime this month .
it could happen on those dates , but t-mobile is n't confirming anything today .
no word on price either .
1official specs after the jump .
rim and t-mobile usa have finally gone official with the blackberry curve 8900 , just one day after the smartphone was seen in one of t-mo 's retail stores .
so now we know for sure that the new curve will be commercially available starting february , although an exact release date and a price were not given yet .
the 8900 is the thinnest blackberry ever built ( only 13.5 mm ) , and it 's also among the best looking smartphones to come form rim .
add wi-fi , gps , a 3.2mp autofocus camera and a nice 480 x 360 pixels display to that and you have a really cool handset .
the only thing that the curve 8900 is missing is 3g , but since t-mobile does n't have a nationwide 3g coverage yet , i guess this is not such a big problem .
while waiting for the new berry to be available , you can enter a t-mobile contest here , and maybe you 'll win one for free .
t-mobile is bolstering its smartphone portfolio by picking up research in motion ( nsdq : rimm ) 's next-generation blackberry curve .
the curve 8900 is the latest refresh of the popular curve line , and it 's the thinnest full-qwerty blackberry ever .
the smartphone also takes some design cues from the blackberry bold , and it has a titanium-colored finish with chrome highlights .
the handset should be able to multitask smoothly , as it 's powered by a 512-mhz processor. like other blackberry handsets , the curve 8900 should have strong messaging capabilities .
users can get personal and corporate push e-mail from up to 10 accounts , and there 's built-in instant messaging .
some users may be disappointed that the new curve can not use t-mobile 's growing 3g network , but the edge connection is more than capable of sending and receiving e-mails on the go .
there 's also integrated wi-fi , and the curve 8900 can be used for unlimited wi-fi calling with t-mobile 's hotspot calling service .
" with rich multimedia capabilities , exceptional mobile e-mail and messaging features , enhanced web browsing , a premium phone , and easy access to social networking communities , including facebook , flickr , and myspace.com , the blackberry curve 8900 helps you make the most of a busy lifestyle that spans well beyond normal business hours , " said mark guibert , vp of rim 's corporate marketing , in a statement .
the handset will come with built-in gps that can be used for location-based searches and navigation .
the bluetooth version 2.0 can be used to pair headsets , as well as for stereo bluetooth headphones .
it packs a 3.2-megapixel camera that also can be used to record video .
rim has been making strides with its multimedia capabilities , and the curve 8900 is no exception .
the handset will be able to play multiple types of audio , and video should look crisp with the display 's 480-by-360 resolution .
users will not have to worry about running out of storage space , as the smartphone comes with a microsd slot that 's expandable up to 16 gb .
t-mobile said the new curve will be available in february , but the company did not give a price .
t - mobile adds blackberry q10 to its 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
may 14 , 2013 .
t - mobile continues to add to its growing line - up of 4g lte devices by partnering with blackberry to bring customers the blackberry q10 .
t - mobile is the only major u . s . wireless company to offer the q10 with no annual service contract plus unlimited talk , text and web on a fast , nationwide 4g network .
today , business customers can work directly with their b2b sales rep to order their blackberry q10 .
pricing for business customers begins at $119 . 99 with qualifying plans .
the blackberry q10 is expected to be available for t - mobile consumer customers in june for $99 . 99 down with 24 equal monthly payments of $20 for well - qualified buyers for 0% apr o . a . c .
the smartphone will be available in t - mobile retail stores , via www . t - mobile . com and through select dealers and national retail stores .
consumer customers interested in the q10 can register at http : / / explore . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
device features .
the new smartphone combines features blackberry is known for - the blackberry qwerty keyboard and security - with a 3 . 1" touch screen , the power of the blackberry 10 platform and 4g lte and hd voice capabilities for a premium customer experience .
blackberry® hub helps manage personal and professional conversations , bbm messages , social media updates , or notifications with the ability to "peek" into the hub from anywhere .
following research in motion 's blackberry bold and blackberry storm entry into the u.s. smartphone market , t-mobile 's blackberry curve 8900 is the thinnest and lightest qwerty device of the burgeoning blackberry line of smartphones .
the new device features built-in gps and wi-fi supporting voice and data in addition to the now usual smartphone lineup of a web browser , music player and camera .
t-mobile usa plans it own exclusive blackberry with the introduction of the blackberry curve 8900 in february .
at and t already has its own deal with blackberry maker research in motion to offer the blackberry bold , while verizon features the blackberry storm as a smartphone .
the new hybrid , quad-band curve 8900 is the thinnest and lightest qwerty device of the burgeoning blackberry line of smartphones .
in addition to the popular keyboard , the device features built-in gps and support of location-based services , built-in wi-fi 802.11b/g supporting voice and data , and support for t-mobile 's unlimited hot spot calling service .
in addition , the device has a 3.2-megapixel camera , a music player and a hot-swappable microsd/sdhc memory card slot with a 256mb card .
the new curve also comes with support for memory cards up to 16gb .
as a quad-band world phone , the blackberry curve 8900 supports international roaming , extending the ability to stay connected while traveling abroad .
rim claims the 8900 's screen is the highest resolution available on a blackberry smartphone .
the device also comes with a 512mhz next-generation processor , although t-mobile plans to wed the device to its 2g edge network .
like other high-end blackberrys , the curve 8900 has enhanced web browsing and access to social networking communities , including facebook , flickr and myspace .
neither rim nor t-mobile has announced u.s. pricing plans for the curve 8900 , but the device , which is already on the market in canada , sells over the internet at prices ranging from $ 500 to $ 550 .
t - mobile usa announces blackberry q10 availability .
april 24 , 2013 .
t - mobile announced today that the blackberry q10 smartphone device will be added to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
beginning april 29th , business customers interested in registering for the blackberry can do so at .
http : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
t - mobile on the blackberry q10 .
t - mobile usa continues to add to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio with the blackberry� q10 .
the blackberry q10 combines blackberry's classic qwerty keyboard and a touch screen with the power of the blackberry� 10 platform that delivers all the speed and connectivity customers demand to help them keep moving .
t - mobile customers can take advantage of the blackberry q10 smartphone's premium hardware , advanced communications and multimedia features on a blazing - fast nationwide 4g network .
"with the powerful combination of blackberry's new blackberry 10 platform , the company's long - standing security features and blackberry's best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for our business customers , " said drew kelton , executive vice president of business markets at t - mobile .
great news for all t - mobile business and non - business customers as the blackberry q10 from t - mobile will be available very soon .
additional details , including availability and pricing , will be shared at a later date .
on monday , we reported on rumors that t-mobile would release the rim blackberry curve 8900 on february 11 , and while the date has not been confirmed , the carrier did go ahead and make the official product announcement on tuesday .
yes , the blackberry curve 8900 will make its way to t-mobile some time in february and is being touted as the thinnest and lightest full qwerty blackberry to date .
as expected , it will have integrated bluetooth and gps and we now know it will have built-in wi-fi as well as support for t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot calling service .
unfortunately , there is no 3g love .
there are plenty of other highlights , though , including a 3.2-megapixel camera , a 3.5mm headphone jack , a microsd/sdhc expansion slot ( supports up to 16gb cards ) , and a 512mhz processor .
pricing and an official release date were not released , but customers can sign up for alerts on t-mobile 's web site .
t - mobile confirms qwerty - based blackberry q10 availability .
blackberry fans take note as t - mobile has confirmed the availability of the qwerty - based q10 .
business customers will get first crack with registration beginning april 29th , with consumer availability coming sometime afterwards .
t - mobile says "additional details , including availability and pricing , will be shared at a later date . " .
word has it that the april 29th registration for business customers will turn into a late may launch , but we're happy with confirmation that blackberry fans have another choice in the future .
the q10 features .
3 . 1″ superamoled display , 720×720 resolution at 330ppi .
blackberry 10 os .
dual - core 1 . 5ghz processor .
35 - key physical qwerty keyboard .
2gb ram .
16gb internal memory .
8 megapixel rear facing camera .
1080p video recording .
2 megapixel front - facing camera .
lte , hspa+ connectivity .
nfc .
statement .
t - mobile usa continues to add to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio with the blackberry® q10 .
the blackberry q10 combines blackberry's classic qwerty keyboard and a touch screen with the power of the blackberry® 10 platform that delivers all the speed and connectivity customers demand to help them keep moving .
t - mobile customers can take advantage of the blackberry q10 smartphone's premium hardware , advanced communications and multimedia features on a blazing - fast nationwide 4g network .
"with the powerful combination of blackberry's new blackberry 10 platform , the company's long - standing security features and blackberry's best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for our business customers , " said drew kelton , executive vice president of business markets at t - mobile .
beginning april 29th , business customers interested in the blackberry q10 from t - mobile can register athttp : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
additional details , including availability and pricing , will be shared at a later date .
t-mobile usa , inc. and research in motion today announced that t-mobile will offer the blackberry curve 8900 to customers in february .
the announcement confirms rumors from december .
the 8900 is the thinnest full-qwerty blackberry smartphone yet .
like its predecessor , the 8320 , the 8900 is fully-featured with connectivity options including a built-in gps and wifi , something that users of t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot calling service should be excited about .
of course , the curve 8900 has an impressive list of features of its own .
it has been upgraded with a 3.2-megapixel camera with image stabilization and video compatibility .
it sports a 512mhz processor and at 480 x 360 , its the highest resolution screen available on a blackberry .
it supports microsd cards up to 16gb ( like the new sandisk memory cards announced today ) .
last , the curve 's quad-band radio , with support for international roaming , should please the jet-setter .
look for it next month at t-mobile retail stores , authorized dealers , and online .
t - mobile us confirms they will carry the blackberry q10 .
on april 24th , 2013 .
we can expect more carriers to be coming out talking about the q10 but t - mobile is the first in the us .
they just confirmed that they will carry the device though they said nothing about availability and pricing .
they did say that after april 29th business customers will be able to register for the q10 at this link .
my guess is they will open up preorders for business customers about 2 weeks before normal launch .
here is how they describe the device .
t - mobile usa continues to add to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio with the blackberry� q10 .
the blackberry q10 combines blackberry's classic qwerty keyboard and a touch screen with the power of the blackberry� 10 platform that delivers all the speed and connectivity customers demand to help them keep moving .
t - mobile customers can take advantage of the blackberry q10 smartphone's premium hardware , advanced communications and multimedia features on a blazing - fast nationwide 4g network .
"with the powerful combination of blackberry's new blackberry 10 platform , the company's long - standing security features and blackberry's best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for our business customers , " said drew kelton , executive vice president of business markets at t - mobile .
t-mobile usa will launch research in motion 's blackberry curve 8900 in february , further strengthening its smartphone lineup in 2009 .
the quad-band global phone has a full qwerty keyboard and built-in gps and wifi capabilities .
it also has 3.2-megapixel camera , a music player , a 3.5mm stereo headset jack and a microsd slot capable of holding up to 16gb .
the device , along with the shadow ii and rumored samsung memoir , which will carry an 8-megapixel camera , beefs up the carrier 's smartphone portfolio as it looks to expand its 3g umts network into 2009 .
t-mobile has not released a specific launch date or pricing information .
t - mobile blackberry q10 pre - order begins april 29th for business customers .
on april 24 , 2013 .
t - mobile today announced that the blackberry q10 will be added to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
beginning april 29th , business customers interested in registering for the blackberry q10 can visit http : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
additional details , including availability and pricing , will be shared at a later date .
general consumers can expect the blackberry q10 to become available later on in may .
t-mobile has announced it will be carrying the blackberry curve 8900 smartphone this february ... although it will not offer 3g data service .
u.s. mobile operator t-mobile has officially announced it will be offering the blackberry curve 8900 smartphone this february .
billed as rim 's lightest and thinnest qwerty keyboard-equipped smartphone , the blackberry curve 8900 features a 3.2 megapixel camera ( plus an additional front-facing 400 by 352-pixel video camera for video calls ) , sdhc/microsd card support for up to 16 gb of storage , integrated wi-fi 80211b/g wireless networking , and gps support .
the curve 8900 also packs a 2.44-inch 480 by 360-pixel color lcd display , and includes a handsfree speakerphone as well as bluetooth wireless device support .
according to rim , the unit offers up to 5.5 hours of talk time and as much as 15 days of standby time .
t-mobile has not revealed an official release date or pricing information for the blackberry curve 8900 , although the unit will work with t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot wi-fi based calling service .
however , the 8900 will not offer 3g connectivity : users will have to paddle along on gsm/gprs and edge connectivity .
of course , the phone will include blackberry software , including full html web browsing , blackberry maps , an enhanced media player , as well as access to corporate communications system and we hear the device will even make phone calls .
t - mobile adds blackberry q10 to its 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
posted at 10 : 04 am on may 14 , 2013 .
t - mobile has announced that the blackberry q10 is coming to their network .
this device is available for order today for business customers at a price of $119 . 99 .
consumers will be able to get their hands on the q10 beginning in june for $99 down with 20 additional monthly payments of $20 .
the q10 will be available in t - mobile retail stores , online at t - mobile . com , and at various retail partners .
interested customers can register for updates on the q10 at the link below .
well that was a neat little progression : early suspicions , followed by a purported internal leak , capped with an official announcement .
t-mobile will be adding the blackberry curve 8900 to their lineup come february .
the press release does n't get any more specific than that , but seems to lend authority to the previous leak , which indicated that the 18th would be the day .
t - mobile confirms it will carry blackberry q10 .
wednesday , april 24th , 2013 at 10 : 40 am .
for those of you who have been waiting for blackberry's new q10 handset , that wait is getting shorter .
t - mobile has announced that it will be carrying the keyboard touting q10 , with pre - registration starting on april 29th .
pricing and release dates are still tbd , but by signing up for alerts on t - mobile's website you will be one of the first to know .
if blackberry's release of the z10 to business customers first is any sign , we may very well see the same approach when it comes to releasing the q10 , meaning that normal consumers may have to wait a little longer for their chance to purchase one of the devices .
although release details are still absent , this e - mail assures us that t - mobile will in fact be carrying the q10 in the future .
the q10 has been previously rumored to be released sometime in may , which seems reasonable given the timing of t - mobile's announcement today , as well as blackberry's announcement of the device making its way to canada on may 1st .
official pr text follows below .
t - mobile today announced that the blackberry q10 will be added to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
beginning april 29th , business customers interested in registering for the blackberry q10 can visit http : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
additional details , including availability and pricing , will be shared at a later date .
t-mobile today announced the blackberry curve 8900 , the thinnest and lightest full-qwerty blackberry smartphone .
the blackberry curve 8900 features a titanium-colored finish with chrome highlights .
it combines a compact design with a full-qwerty keyboard , 512mhz processor for fast and responsive performance , and built-in gps and wi-fi ( 802.11 b/g ) connectivity .
the smartphone has a 3.2-megapixel camera with image stabilization , digital zoom , flash and the ability to record video and play video .
it also features a music player with a 3.5mm stereo headset jack and headset .
included with a 256mb memory card , consumers can purchase extra memory for the hot-swappable microsd/sdhc slot ( with support for memory cards up to 16gb ) .
the quad-band blackberry curve 8900 supports international roaming .
customers can get unlimited nationwide wi-fi calling with t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot calling service .
" the new blackberry curve 8900 features a compact and refined design that looks and feels great , " said mark guibert , vice president of research in motion .
" with rich multimedia capabilities , exceptional mobile email and messaging features , enhanced web browsing , a premium phone and easy access to social networking communities , including facebook , flickr and myspace , the blackberry curve 8900 helps you make the most of a busy lifestyle that spans well beyond normal business hours . " .
the new blackberry curve 8900 smartphone from t-mobile is anticipated to be available in february at t-mobile stores and online .
t - mobile will carry the blackberry q10 .
published april 24th 2013 - 17 : 59 .
t - mobile has announced it will carry the blackberry q10 , and business registration will begin at t - mobile . com on april 29 .
here's the official email t - mobile sent to its business customers .
the q10 ships with blackberry balance , for keeping your work and personal information separate , blackberry remember , blackberry hub and bbm video with screen share .
the bb q10 also features a 3 . 1 inch oled display , blackberry tag with nfc technology , a qwerty keyboard and an 8mp rear - facing camera .
the q10 is available with 16gb of internal storage and is 4g lte capable .
research in motion today announced that t-mobile usa will start selling the new blackberry curve 8900 smartphone to its customers .
dubbed as the thinnest and lightest qwerty blackberry , the curve 8900 will feature built-in gps with support of location-based services , wifi with voice and data support , a 3.2 megapixel camera with digital zoom , image stabilization and flash , video recording and playback , a music player , a 3.5mm stereo headset jack and a microsd/sdhc memory card slot with a 256mb card included in the box .
all this running on 512mhz processor .
t-mobile is expected to launch the blackberry curve 8900 smartphone in mid-february .
price has not been revealed .
blackberry q10 preorders launch on t - mobile april 29 .
april 24 , 2013 .
blackberry's ( nasdaq : bbry ) new q10 smartphone will be available for preorder for business customers on t - mobile's website april 29 , according to an online statement by the carrier .
the q10 will sport 4g lte connectivity , with a physical keyboard and touchscreen display .
the new smartphone will add to a growing list of t - mobile 4g lte phones , including the recent iphone , which launched on the carrier earlier this month .
drew kelton , executive vice president of business markets at t - mobile , said , "with the powerful combination of blackberry's new blackberry 10 platform , the company's long - standing security features , and blackberry's best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for our business customers . " .
t - mobile recently ran into problems selling the much - anticipated samsung galaxy s4 , pushing the online ordering date back from april 24 to april 29 .
t - mobile and blackberry haven't said when the q10 will be available , or what the price will be .
( . . . ) .
amd buys seamicro , starts selling intel - based servers .
on march 1 , 2012 at 8 : 12 am .
in an unprecedented move that suggests that there might be life in the old dog yet , amd has acquired seamicro , a company that builds high - density , low - power servers using intel cpus .
the deal cost amd $334 million ( $281m in cash ) , a fairly sizable chunk of change when you consider that its yearly profits are usually around the $400 million mark .
if you haven " t heard of seamicro before , they " re essentially a silicon valley startup built around a technology called freedom fabric , an asic ( application - specific integrated circuit ) that allows a computer to be scaled down to a motherboard the size of a deck of playing cards .
these tiny computers ( each one containing an atom or xeon cpu , some dram , and the freedom fabric asic ) are then stacked together to form very - high - density servers ( pictured above ) .
these server bricks are just 10u in size , contain up to 768 cpus , and include four gigabit ethernet switches and a load balancer .
to achieve the same kind of processing power with conventional rackmount servers you would need two full racks ( 84u ! ) of dual - socket quad - core servers and network gear .
the seamicro server bricks use a quarter of the power , too , because the custom cpu - dram - asics contain absolutely no hardware cruft that leeches power .
in short , with energy prices increasing , data center real estate as costly as ever , and the web showing no signs of slowing down , seamicro servers are really rather desirable .
more than miniaturization , though , freedom fabric is also compatible with multiple instruction sets and allows for complete hardware virtualization ; both very desirable properties in this age of cloud computing .
but why did amd buy seamicro ?
as it stands , seamicro has a tight partnership with intel , and every seamicro server uses intel chips .
according to amd , seamicro will sell intel - based servers “ for the foreseeable future , " but an opteron - based solution should arrive by the end of the year .
in all likelihood , amd probably sees seamicro as an excellent way of bolstering its presence in the incredibly lucrative ( and rapidly expanding ) server market .
with seamicro , amd can deal directly with companies looking for servers , cutting out the ( very profitable ) hp , dell , or ibm middle man .
the server space is one area that amd still seems to be able compete with intel and with freedom fabric amd might once again become a compelling choice .
february 29 , 2012 , 7 : 32 p . m . et .
amd to acquire server start - up .
advanced micro devices inc . , amd +0 . 26% vowing to change the game in its longtime competition with intel corp . , intc +0 . 93% has forged a deal to buy a silicon valley start - up that takes the chip maker into the server business .
the sunnyvale , calif . , company said it will pay $334 million for seamicro inc . , a company known for products called micro servers that pack together many chips in ways that save space and energy .
such products are particularly popular among companies that buy servers in huge volumes to run popular consumer websites .
amd has long battled intel in making chips for servers , as well as pcs , but it has struggled lately in the larger systems because of late products and other issues .
both companies , meanwhile , face increasing competition from companies making lower - power chips that are based on architecture developed by arm holdings plc .
last year , hewlett - packard co . announced a partnership with calxeda inc . , a start - up making arm - based micro servers .
most chip makers avoid selling systems that use their chips , because such moves can put them in competition with their customers .
but rory read , a former lenovo group ltd . executive who became amd chief executive in august , has stressed the need for unconventional tactics against its much - larger rival .
in a briefing wednesday , amd executives stressed that the main motivation of buying seamicro was not to sell servers but to offer communications technology and other elements developed by seamicro to allow other server makers to make similar products .
"we are not intending to compete with our customers , " said lisa su , who recently joined amd to serve as senior vice president and general manager for global business units .
on the other hand , amd plans to keep supporting seamicro's existing customers by selling servers "for the foreseeable future , " ms . su said .
those systems now use intel chips .
but amd plans to also offer systems that use amd's opteron chips for servers in the second half of the year , the company said .
mr . read had already indicated that amd in the future might offer customers the choice of products that include arm technology .
seamicro , meanwhile , had indicated its technology was also designed to support arm as well as the x86 chips sold by amd and intel .
seamicro chief executive andrew feldman , who will become general manager of amd's newly created data - center server solutions business , said the company had more than one interested bidder .
but he said it was attracted by amd management's open attitude toward issues such as supporting other chip designs , as well as a desire to propagate its technology faster than a start - up can .
"we came to believe the way to grab this opportunity was the drive of a much larger company , " mr . feldman said .
the start - up , also based in sunnyvale , originally passed up intel's mainstream offering for servers , a chip called xeon that is a workhorse for companies around the around the world .
seamicro took intel's tiny , relatively low - powered atom chip—best known for use in inexpensive laptop computers called netbooks and now in smartphones—and packaged it for use in data centers .
seamicro last month held an event with intel and samsung electronics co . to detail plans to use xeon chips in its new machines .
that shift , the company said at the time , allows customers to use its machines for an array of new tasks that couldn't be addressed before , such as running web databases rather than simply serving up web pages .
mr . feldman said wednesday that amd's opteron chip would further expand the kinds of applications that would fit its technology .
jason waxman , intel's general manager for cloud computing , said it has enjoyed its relationship with seamicro and expects to keep supplying chips to the company as part of amd , while working with other makers of micro servers .
he noted that intel has also been acquiring communications - related technology so amd's motivations were understandable .
"you need a broader technology portfolio to service the needs of customers in this market , " mr . waxman said .
evercore analyst patrick wang said the acquisition was surprising but likely indicates amd's commitment to the data center and cloud computing .
"this is the next step in that direction , " mr . wang said .
"but it's a very unconventional step . " .
mr . wang said amd likely is using the purchase to acquire server intellectual property , particularly for the high - performance technology , known as a fabric , that connects all the different processors and disk drives to each other .
the approach allows data to pass more quickly and efficiently .
"supermicro is very successful right now , " he said .
amd said $281 million of the purchase price for seamicro will be in cash .
the company said the acquisition doesn't change its 2012 financial guidance and the transaction is expected to be add to earnings after 2012 .
amd to acquire server innovator seamicro .
february 29th , 2012 .
in a bold move to boost its position in next - generation servers , amd will acquire low - power server specialist seamicro for $334 million , the companies said today .
the acquisition is a disruptive one for the low - power server landscape , as seamicro has been using intel chips in its next - generation servers , which offer dramatic reductions in power and space usage .
the crown jewel in the acquisition is seamicro " s networking fabric , which allows hundreds of low - power processors to work together .
the seamicro architecture is processor - neutral , meaning it can be quickly adapted to work with amd " s technology .
“ by acquiring seamicro , we are accelerating amd " s transformation into an agile , disruptive innovator capable of staking a data center leadership position , " said rory read , president and ceo , amd .
“ seamicro is a pioneer in low - power server technology .
“ we are clearly skating to where the puck is going , " read added .
“ this is a great company with innovative ip and great talent . " .
the importance of the cloud .
amd plans to offer the first amd opteron processor - based solutions that combine amd and seamicro technology in the second half of 2012 .
the company said it remains firmly committed to its traditional server business , and will continue to invest in research and development .
but amd executives said the acquisition of seamicro will boost the company " s offerings for cloud computing providers , who are keenly focused on reducing the energy used by their armadas of servers .
“ cloud data centers are the fastest growing segment of the server market , " said lisa su , senior vice president and general manager , global business units .
“ the cloud has changed the dynamics of the data center and how people think about servers . " .
su said amd will offer seamicro servers with amd chips to provide continuity for existing customers .
but the primary focus will be on integrating seamicro " s fabric technology with amd processors in “ building blocks " for its oem customers .
downsized “ building block " .
the basic building block of the seamicro system is a credit card - sized compute block , comprised of a cpu and its chipset , dram , and a custom seamicro asic ( application specific integrated circuit ) .
seamicro " s patented i / o virtualization allows companies to save money by using fewer cables and network interface cards ( nics ) to connect to networks and storage .
seamicro " s early systems featured up to 768 intel atom cores in a 10u server .
it recently introduced a server powered by 64 intel xeon processors , providing a “ brawny " offering to supplement the “ wimpy " atom nodes .
one of the benefits of the amd acquisition is the ability to adapt seamicro " s technology to a broader range of workloads and applications , according the seamicro ceo andrew feldman .
“ seamicro was founded to dramatically reduce the power consumed by servers , while increasing compute density and bandwidth , " said feldman , who will become general manager of amd " s newly created data center server solutions business .
“ by becoming a part of amd , we will have access to new markets , resources , technology , and scale that will provide us with the opportunity to work tightly with our oem partners as we fundamentally change the server market . " .
amd acquires seamicro to grab share of microserver market .
amd's $334 million deal with seamicro is a strong move to improve within the ... .
mar 1 2012 , 2 : 35am cet .
amd has made a $334 million bet on the energy - efficient "microserver" market .
on wednesday afternoon , the company announced that they have reached a $334 million agreement , to purchase seamicro , a successful microserver manufacturer .
launched in 2007 , seamicro quickly gained attention for their ability to combine cheap , low - end processors that could handle web - centric server workloads .
the company worked closely , if not exclusively , with intel processors in recent years .
seamicro's current sm server line uses intel's atom and "sandy bridge" processors .
“ by acquiring seamicro , we are accelerating amd " s transformation into an agile , disruptive innovator capable of staking a data center leadership position , " said rory read , amd's president and ceo , in today's news release .
for now , amd will continue to sell seamicro servers based on intel atom processors according to pc world .
however , amd expects to release the first seamicro servers based on amd opteron processors within the year .
amd to acquire microserver vendor seamicro - - a user of intel chips .
advanced micro devices to acquire microserver vendor seamicro for $334 million .
to date , seamicro has used chips from intel .
february 29 , 2012 3 : 24 pm pst .
advanced micro devices will acquire server vendor seamicro in an attempt to make a run at intel in the microserver market .
amd said it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire seamicro , a company that supplies energy - efficient microservers , for approximately $334 million .
to date , seamicro servers have been using intel's atom and xeon processors .
future plans call for seamicro to build servers with amd's opteron chips .
"amd plans to offer the first amd opteron processor - based solutions that combine amd and seamicro technology in the second half of 2012 .
the company remains firmly committed to its traditional server business , and will continue to focus and invest in this area , " amd said in a statement .
seamicro's innovations include its supercompute fabric , which connects thousands of processor cores , memory , storage , and input / output traffic .
seamicro's fabric supports multiple processor instruction sets .
"seamicro was founded to dramatically reduce the power consumed by servers , while increasing compute density and bandwidth , " said andrew feldman , seamicro ceo , who will become general manager of amd's newly created data center server solutions business .
amd snaps up server upstart seamicro .
jumpstarting a cloudy server biz with an interconnect .
29th february 2012 .
amd's new ceo rory read was fired up about executing better in the server racket at the company's analyst day earlier this month and has wasted little time in stirring things up with the acquisition of low - power server start - up seamicro for $334m .
seamicro is the server upstart founded four and a half years ago that came out of stealth in june 2010 with an atom bomb : a 10u chassis crammed with 512 single - core atom servers in a 10u chassis , all linked by a 1 . 28tb / sec 3d torus interconnect implemented on an asic that also virtualized all i / o in the cluster of server nodes and provided load balancing across those nodes .
over time , seamicro has added 64 - bit atoms , boosted the number of atom processors and main memory in the system , and only a month ago announced a variant that used single - socket xeon e3 - 1260l processors to give the sm10000 system some "brawny cores" to do heavier computational tasks .
the acquisition of seamicro will no doubt irk intel , which has used seamicro as a poster child for its microserver and cloud computing efforts in the past two years .
so there's some public relations fun in that .
but there isn't much intel can do about seamicro being in amd's hands .
in a conference call with wall street analysts announcing the deal after the market closed , andrew feldman , seamicro's ceo and co - founder , said that his company had been buying atom processors and chipsets from the distribution channel , not from intel .
seamicro does not anticipate any changes in getting its supply of atom and xeon processors or building systems for current and future customers .
in the call , read reiterated that amd was "seizing the inflection point" in the server business .
the acquisition of seamicro , which along with cisco systems is one of the first new entrants in the server racket in years to actually look like it has a chance of making it , would "accelerate out transformation into an agile and disruptive innovator . " .
as we can now see , looking at the past month in hindsight , is that amd figured out that is needed to hunker down on its opteron processor roadmaps and not force server makers to absorb a socket change in 2012 , as was the original plan , but rather to get an improved "piledriver" core for opteron processors into the field this year and do lots of performance tuning to show what "bulldozer" class of chip can really do .
the company then looked around and decided that it didn't need a new chip or chipset so much as a whole different set of technologies to sell to its server oem partners .
that's where seamicro came in .
much will be made of amd entering the server business with the acquisition of seamicro .
but that's not the point , even if it will be technically true over the next months .
lisa su , senior vice president and general manager of the new global business units at amd , who is tasked with making sure the company has the components from which server makers want to build systems , put the kibosh on that idea .
"this is a technology play for us , " su explained , calling the interconnect used at the heart of the seamicro system a "unique technology" that would be a "building block" that amd integrates with its processors and chipsets and then in turn sells to server makers .
the company will work now to get amd's opteron server processors embedded in the seamicro machines , which it expected to have accomplished by the second half of this year .
the company will not divulge what opteron chips it will weld onto the seamicro server boards , but it stands to reason that it would be a low - voltage opteron 3200 or 4200 part .
in an interview with el reg , mark papermaster , amd's cto , deflected all of the interesting questions about how the seamicro 3d torus interconnect might be used , such as extending it beyond one chassis to span multiple chassis under a single management and cluster domain , or maybe adding cache coherence and shared main memory across all or a portion of a seamicro server's nodes .
the acquisition , said papermaster , "allows us to redefine the server building block , " and he noted that amd was keen on becoming "an agile soc company , " referring to system - on - chip designs that put processors and other system elements into a single piece of glass .
and he confirmed el reg's sense that amd was not getting into the server business .
"you have that exactly right , " said papermaster .
when asked about when amd and seamicro started talking , papermaster would not be specific , except to say that amd "moved very , very rapidly . " .
this was quite possibly to keep someone else from buying seamicro and very certainly in part as a reaction to intel's purchase of the infiniband networking business from qlogic back in january for $125m .
papermaster would not comment on rumors that amd has been taking a look at arm server chip maker calxeda , but it could very well turn out that if amd had tried to do that deal , it might be grateful that it fell through .
the seamicro deal is a much better option if it wants to sell server interconnects and help oem customers build cloudy servers and maybe even clustered supercomputers based on the seamicro "freedom" fabric , as the latest generation is called .
that fabric is processor and instruction set agnostic , as feldman has said many times , and seamicro only started out on atom processors because they gave the best bang for the watt .
and it could turn out that calxeda and amd partner to make arm servers somewhere down the road .
why not ?
read wanted to make sure that everyone understood that the seamicro acquisition would have no effect on the company's 2012 and 2013 opteron processor roadmaps and system plans , and that amd was not leaving the traditional x86 server business .
"we're in that business to stay , and we're going to grow it and invest in it , " read said .
amd is paying $281m in cash and $53m in stock to acquire privately held seamicro , which raised $35m in two rounds of funding and also got $9 . 3m in funding from the us government as part of the $787bn american recovery and reinvestment act ( arra ) of 2009 .
feldman is staying on at amd after the acquisition closes and will be general manager of a new data center server solutions business unit , reporting to su .
both chipmakers are bullish about combining , but a key issue for them will be convincing skeptics they should join together in the first place .
advanced micro devices ( amd ) chief executive hector ruiz waxed metaphorical as he described his company 's acquisition of ati technologies ( atyt ) .
chipmaker amd , hoping to gain a leg up on a resurgent rival intel ( intc ) , on july 24 ended months of speculation by saying it would buy graphics chipmaker ati for about $ 5.4 billion .
" we will move from being neighbors to being a family , " ruiz told analysts on a conference call .
the two companies have long partnered in the competitive market for chips that run personal computers and consumer electronics .
but under the same roof , the companies will focus on innovations that are particularly attractive to corporate and mobile-computing customers , ruiz believes .
the enlarged chipmaker will combine amd 's strength in fast-computing power with ati 's specialty in delivering detailed graphics onto a single , low-cost chip .
but the problem with families-especially those formed by multibillion-dollar corporate mergers-is that they often end up dysfunctional .
promised cost savings and sales increases do n't always pan out , and integration of disparate cultures and operations is frequently fraught with value-destroying rifts .
maybe that 's why intel and nvidia ( nvda ) , the companies ' two biggest rivals , found a lot to smile about on july 24 , the day the deal was announced .
" i thought it was just impossible to get a gift like this , " crowed nvidia ceo jen-hsun huang , in an interview with businessweek.com .
ati is " basically throwing in the towel , leaving us as the only stand-alone ( graphics chip ) company in the world . " .
intel , the world 's largest graphics-chipmaker , declined to comment specifically on the deal .
but company execs have noted intel continues to improve its own graphics chipsets and that it expects to deliver platforms of products , like centrino , that amd can not easily match .
investors were n't too sure how happy the amd and ati family will turn out to be , either .
amd shares fell almost 5 % on july 24 , to $ 17.40 , extending recent declines fueled by concern amd will be the biggest loser amid an escalating pc industry price war .
" the assumption of a significant amount of new debt and the need to address integration issues at a time when amd has been seeking to step up its competitive pressure in a fierce environment with intel is likely to weigh on amd 's share , " lehman brothers semiconductor analyst tim luke noted in a report .
indeed , amd and ati could be distracted from their core businesses for months as they combine into a company with $ 7.3 billion in annual sales and 15,000 employees sprawled through canada , california , and texas .
credit-rating agency fitch ratings lowered its outlook on amd 's debt to negative from positive on concern the chipmaker 's debt-to-capital ratio will jump to 37 % from less than 10 % because of a $ 2.5 billion term loan it is using to partially finance the deal .
the merger also could lock ati out of the business of supplying graphics chipsets to intel-based pcs , worth about $ 90 million a year in revenue .
ati chipsets connect to intel 's processor through what 's known as a front side bus , which serves as a highway for transferring data .
but amd , under a different licensing deal with intel , is not allowed to use that front side bus .
" we are evaluating the deal , and have got a lot to figure out how it would fit in with our existing agreements with both ati and amd , " intel spokesman chuck mulloy says .
and while ati and amd are busy ironing out their new relationship , intel and nvidia are rolling out some heavy-hitting chips of their own .
intel and its pc partners on july 27 begin shipping for the first chips in a brand-new pc architecture called core 2 duo ( see businessweek.com , 7/24/06 , " intel sharpens its offensive game " ) .
first up will be desktop chips , followed closely by new energy-sipping chips for notebook pcs .
core 2 duo is expected to wrest the performance crown in the mainstream pc market from amd for the first time in more than two years .
amd will not get a chance to grab it back until mid-2007 , when it is fully ramped on a new manufacturing process .
meantime , nvidia is prepping to deliver a new high-end graphics chip later this year that company executives herald as the biggest leap forward in nearly a decade .
after a high-profile delay in delivering a new chip in 2001 , nvidia has been steadily taking market share from ati in the lucrative market supplying screaming-fast graphic cards to the discriminating gaming community .
amd says there 's plenty of reason to be bullish on the deal .
the company has its sights on markets where nvidia and intel are not as strong .
amd president dirk meyer hopes to use ati 's chipset business to develop an energy-sipping combo processing and graphics chip that can be paired with software partners to deliver a platform better able to compete with intel 's new vpro offering .
intel has won early praise from software companies and large businesses for vpro , which bakes security and virtualization directly into the chip .
with vpro , tech administrators managing thousands of pcs could partition parts of the system from workers-a feature that could keep viruses from rapidly spreading across corporate networks .
and ati 's growing business of providing graphics chipsets to cell-phone makers nokia ( nok ) and motorola ( mot ) also will give it up a leg up over intel , he said .
intel recently sold its cellular chip business to marvell technology ( mrvl ) for $ 600 million .
" customers want to get better mobile offerings and more stable commercial offerings , but they want to know that we 're still going to offer them the ability to choose , " meyer says .
even if relations between amd and nvidia turn frosty and ati loses intel 's business , amd executives predict a combined offering would bring in an additional $ 300 million in revenue in the pc realm alone for every share point gained against intel .
still , not everyone 's sold. pip coburn , founder of tech advisory firm coburn ventures , notes amd has pinned its success on a range of variables .
" i do n't want six reasons , " coburn says, .
" i want two reasons , two good reasons . " .
amd 's meyer says he knows the company has some heavy lifting ahead .
" the integration task is going to require focus , " he says .
the biggest job , however , may be convincing skeptics this family was worth forming in the first place .
amd announces strategic investment to accelerate cloud server strategy .
on february 29 , 2012 , amd announced a definitive agreement to acquire seamicro , a pioneer in energy - efficient , high - bandwidth microservers .
by acquiring seamicro , amd is accelerating our disruptive server strategy , taking advantage of an inflection point in the industry driving opportunities in low power , client mobility , emerging markets and the cloud / megadata centers .
this disruptive move positions amd to expand our current server offerings and provide our customers with low - power , low - cost , high - bandwidth platforms .
with seamicro , amd builds upon our processor design and compute expertise with system - level advances in energy efficiency , total cost of ownership and density for customers .
we are excited to have seamicro join amd .
the combination of seamicro ip with amd opteron™ technologies and our focus on execution provide amd differentiated capabilities to address the evolving needs of the server market .
rbc capital markets downgraded ati technologies to " sector perform " from " outperform " after advanced micro devices announced its intention to buy the canadian graphics chip-maker for $ 5.4 billion on monday .
even though the takeover looks fairly valued , rbc analyst steve arthur said there is limited upside to the offer unless competing bids are made for ati .
for now , arthur said amd 's takeover deal , which is expected to close in the fourth quarter , effectively offers his one-year price target of $ 21 now .
that price target was set prior to the takeover bid and factored in ati 's gross margin leverage , capital expenditure strength , a competitive product lineup and the launch of microsoft ( nasdaq : msft - news - people ) windows ' new operating system , vista , which would be a " net positive " for graphics-chips vendors .
without a competitive bid to drive shares higher , ati is unlikely to outperform , warranting a " sector perform " rating in the analyst 's view .
arthur said a competitive bid is possible but the two most-likely bidders , intel ( nasdaq : intc - news - people ) and nvdidia , face prohibitive anti-trust challenges. combined , ati and intel would have 68 % overall market share in pc graphics , while an ati-nvidia partnership would effectively capture 100 % of the discrete graphics market .
other counteroffers could be made by texas instruments ( nyse : txn - news - people ) and broadcom ( nasdaq : brcm - news - people ) , which , according to arthur , would n't so much face anti-trust challenges as they would compatibility challenges .
amd to acquire seamicro : accelerates disruptive server strategy .
seamicro low - power , high - bandwidth microserver solutions set the stage for amd " s disruptive approach to lead fast - growing cloud data center market .
sunnyvale , calif . —2 / 29 / 2012 .
amd ( nyse : amd ) today announced it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire seamicro , a pioneer in energy - efficient , high - bandwidth microservers , for approximately $334 million , of which approximately $281 million will be paid in cash .
through the acquisition of seamicro , amd will be accelerating its strategy to deliver disruptive server technology to its oem customers serving cloud - centric data centers .
with seamicro " s fabric technology and system - level design capabilities , amd will be uniquely positioned to offer industry - leading server building blocks tuned for the fastest - growing workloads such as dynamic web content , social networking , search and video .
amd " s server technology combined with seamicro technology provides customers with a range of processor choices and platforms that can help significantly reduce data center complexity , cost and energy consumption while improving performance .
amd plans to offer the first amd opteron™ processor - based solutions that combine amd and seamicro technology in the second half of 2012 .
the company remains firmly committed to its traditional server business , and will continue to focus and invest in this area .
“ by acquiring seamicro , we are accelerating amd " s transformation into an agile , disruptive innovator capable of staking a data center leadership position , " said rory read , president and ceo , amd .
“ seamicro is a pioneer in low - power server technology .
the unmatched combination of amd " s processing capabilities , seamicro " s system and fabric technology , and our ambidextrous technology approach uniquely positions amd with a compelling , differentiated position to attack the fastest growing segment of the server market . " .
seamicro technologies offer substantial advantages in large data center and cloud environments .
cloud data centers are projected to be the fastest growing segment of the server market through 2015 , according to idc1 .
current systems featuring seamicro technology typically use one quarter the power and take one sixth the space of traditional servers with the same compute performance , yet deliver up to 12 times the bandwidth per core2 .
foremost among seamicro " s innovations is their supercompute fabric , which connects thousands of processor cores , memory , storage and input / output traffic .
seamicro " s fabric supports multiple processor instruction sets .
seamicro solutions are currently deployed in multiple sites across the world .
amd will continue to support all current seamicro customers while accelerating plans to deliver new platforms that combine amd and seamicro technology and enable amd " s oem partners to bring differentiated solutions to market .
“ cloud computing has brought a sea change to the data center - - dramatically altering the economics of compute by changing the workload and optimal characteristics of a server , " said andrew feldman , seamicro ceo , who will become general manager of amd " s newly created data center server solutions business .
“ seamicro was founded to dramatically reduce the power consumed by servers , while increasing compute density and bandwidth .
by becoming a part of amd , we will have access to new markets , resources , technology , and scale that will provide us with the opportunity to work tightly with our oem partners as we fundamentally change the server market . " .
the acquisition does not change amd " s 2012 financial guidance and the transaction is expected to be accretive to earnings after 2012 .
amd will fund the cash portion of the acquisition with existing cash reserves .
amd conference call .
amd will hold a conference call for the financial community at 4 : 45 p . m . est today to discuss today " s announcement .
amd will provide a real - time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the investor relations page of its web site at www . amd . com .
the webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call .
ati a potent weapon for amd in clash with intel .
the pitched battle for supremacy in the chip-making market reached a critical phase yesterday with advanced micro devices ( amd ) in sunnyvale , calif . announcing its decision to acquire canadian graphic cards manufacturer ati technologies ( ati ) .
the imminent purchase of ati , analysts say , is the most vital element in amd 's concerted campaign to dethrone the mighty intel corp .
amd agreed to buy markham , ont-based ati for around $ 5.4 billion in cash and stock , the companies announced monday .
the acquisition , which is subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals , would turn amd into one of the world 's largest providers of graphics chips .
" you wo n't see it tomorrow , but the merger will potentially put amd on a more equal footing with intel , " said michelle warren , an analyst with evans research in toronto .
another canadian analyst noted that the merger was likely to bring significant benefits to both companies .
amd would round out its graphics processing unit portfolio , said eddie chan , lead analyst , mobile and personal computing at research firm idc canada in toronto. ati , he said , also blends in well amd 's live ! convergence platform .
" ati has a strong product portfolio that covers components for such offerings as mobile phones , wireless products , digital tv , and high definition tv . " .
on the flip side , amd allows ati to hitch a ride on the integrated chip bandwagon .
discrete graphics components have been suffering over the years as the market moves on to integrated chips such as those sold by intel , said chan .
" a tie-up with amd allows ati to move towards integrated solutions or the so-called system-on-a-chip platform . " .
the marketing message from ati executives too is all about the 'mutual benefits ' of the proposed acquisition .
adrian hartog , senior vice-president for consumer products at ati , characterized the alliance as a growth opportunity for both companies .
it is generally expected that the merged company will harness ati 's strong r and d track record .
in a list released late last year of canada 's top 10 r and d spenders , ati technologies was in position 5 .
the company spent $ 389.1 million in r and d in 2004 , an increase of 18.3 percent .
the list was released by toronto consulting firm research infosource .
the ati research team has a proven capacity to turn major new products out every 12 to 18 months .
" bringing these two companies together will allow us to transcend what we have accomplished as individual businesses , " said hector ruiz , chairman and chief executive officer ( ceo ) of amd in a statement .
" all of our product lines will benefit . " .
earlier , amd revealed plans to build a highly efficient dual-core notebook processor , set for release in the second half of 2007 .
amd enjoys considerable strength in the server and consumer computing industry while ati is considered a leader in the computer gaming arena .
warren said recent years have seen these disparate markets move closer to each other .
for instance , ati 's shader model 3.0 , which allows more complex shading and more realistic image rendering , is finding traction in the enterprise space with companies that are heavy computer-aided drafting ( cad ) users , including customers in the automotive , aerospace and animation spaces .
hartog said the purchase of ati by amd will involve ' some changes ' but he downplayed any potential lay-offs from among the company 's more than 3,000 employees .
" ontario has one of our largest r and d teams and that arrangement will continue .
we are not anticipating any immediate lay-offs , " hartog said .
any acquisition raises the issue of employment stability , said warren , but amd would be wise to allow ati to continue operating as it does .
" there is a strong chance ati will be given a measure of autonomy because it has great strength in its area . " .
warren said the alliance also " steps up " ati 's competition with rival nvidia of santa clara , calif. apart from ati , amd also turns to nvidia for graphics components .
" depending on the contract , it is possible that nvidia 's access to amd chips will be limited , " said warren .
if that happens , evans research analyst michelle warren said , " it will open the doors for nvidia to search for new options and possibly talk with intel .
however , hartog said there will be no move to constrain nvidia 's supply .
" nvidia will continue to be amd 's partner .
both ati and amd are committed to open platform systems , " he said .
" in fact that is what differentiates us to our partners and customers . " .
amd enters server business with bold acquisition .
02 . 29 . 12 4 : 15 pm .
chip designer and chief intel rival amd has signed an agreement to acquire seamicro , a silicon valley startup that seeks to save power and space by building servers from hundreds of low - power processors .
with the purchase , amd will not only turn itself into a server maker , it will turn itself into a server maker that uses chips from intel .
today , seamicro " s servers are built with processors from amd " s rival , including intel " s atom mobile processors as well as intel xeon chips .
amd says it will continue to sell and support seamicro servers equipped with intel chips “ for the foreseeable future . " .
but it also hopes to license seamicro " s server “ fabric " technology to other server sellers , including big names dell and hp , and it plans to introduce amd opteron chips into seamicro machines sometime in the second half of the year .
seamicro " s fabric is a way of efficiently connecting various pieces of server hardware , and the company says it can be used with virtually any processor .
less than a month ago , intel and seamicro held a joint press event where they predicted a bright future together , so it would appear that the amd acquisition came about rather quickly .
but amd " s lisa su — the company " s senior vice president and general manager for its global business units — says the chip designer has been eyeing technologies along the lines of seamicro " s for some time .
“ we " ve been looking at the key technology innovations that are going to really disrupt the server market .
we " ve been looking at fabric technologies — externally with a number of companies as well as internally , looking to develop ourselves — and we felt that seamicro was really the best option .
it was proven , and it was in systems , " su said on wednesday morning during a briefing with reporters .
“ the complement of our processing capability and seamicro " s fabric technology gives us what we think is a very , very strong [ intellectual property ] portfolio . " .
amd will pay $334 million for seamicro , including $281 million in cash .
the deal is expected to close in “ a number of weeks . " .
based in sunnyvale , california , seamicro is at the forefront of a movement to build servers from ultra - low - powered processors — aka “ wimpy cores . " .
the idea is to reduce power by splitting applications into small pieces that can be spread across a larger number of chips , not unlike the one running your cell phone .
texas startup calxeda offers “ wimpy core " servers equipped with chips using the arm instruction set — an alternative to the x86 instruction set used by intel and amd — while hp is exploring the idea with a research effort it calls project moonshot .
but last month , during that press event co - hosted by intel , seamicro announced that it would also offer servers equipped with intel xeon chips , which were specifically designed for servers .
xeon consume more power , but they also offer more speed .
seamicro says that certain software workloads are suited to the wimpy cores , while others are suited to “ brawny cores , " and this same message is delivered by the likes of dave andersen , the carnegie melon professor who coined the wimpy core name .
whatever processor it uses , seamicro says , it can save power and space when you compare its machines to traditional servers .
the company has built specialized asic chip loaded with software that allows the company to build ultra - small motherboards that include little more than processors , memory , and the asic itself — and then connect hundreds of these boards .
according to the company , this technology is “ chip agnostic , " meaning it can relatively easily be used with new chip architectures .
amd and seamicro say that they will “ explore " the use of seamicro " s fabrics with all sorts of processors , both wimpy and brawny .
this may include arm chips .
in recent weeks , amd has hinted that it will eventually license arm technology .
asked if the company will continue to offer ultra - low - power chips along the lines of the intel atom , seamicro ceo and co - founder andrew feldman said “ absolutely . " .
but he declined to point to specific processor architectures .
“ this [ seamicro fabric ] technology can work with larger cores and small cores .
it can work with x86 and non - x86 .
it can also move ethernet traffic and storage traffic , " feldman said .
amd chief technology officer mark papermaster then piped up to point out that amd is intent on using whatever chip technologies are needed to get a particular job done .
“ if you look at our roadmap , we have a very agile [ system - on - a - chip ] , " he said .
“ it allows us to be more pushy in bringing in our ip . " .
seamicro currently employs 80 people , and about half of them are engineers .
one of those engineers is founder and chief technology officer gary lauterbach , who was previously an amd fellow and one of five architects who build the core of amd " s opteron processor .
lauterbach was also a lead chip designer at sun microsystems , and the idea for seamicro first came to him when he and another sun executive got a look at the low - power servers that powered google " s search engine in the early part of the last decade .
andrew feldman will become the general manager of amd " s new “ data center solutions " business .
according to su , this business unit will continue to support the current “ roadmap " for seamicro " s servers .
this means that the company will sell and service seamicro " s intel atom and intel xeon systems — though su indicated that the company will eventually drop intel " s chips .
she said that amd opteron chips will be added to seamicro system “ towards the end of this year . " .
intel " s jason waxman — who heads the company " s general manager of intel " s high density computing group — tells wired that amd " s acquisition of seamicro “ doesn " t change a whole lot " for intel .
he says that amd will decide whether to keep selling seamicro servers with intel chips , and that intel will continue to reduce the power consumption of both its xeon and atom chips for use inside servers .
“ being able to launch the seamicro product with intel xeon silicon was a good testimonial for us .
they thought we were the best partner at the time , " waxman said .
“ they chose our silicon for a reason . " .
whatever the fate of intel chips in seamicro servers , amd says the acquisition is about more than just selling machines .
the idea is also to “ broaden " amd " s relationships with server sellers such as dell and hp .
presumably , this means that amd will license seamicro " s fabric technology to third - parties .
“ we have new technology that we can add to our existing opteron roadmap to form something that can really differentiate us in the marketplace , " su said .
andrew feldman added that seamicro has already had discussions along these lines with the likes of dell and hp .
currently , dell resells seamicro servers .
that said , the acquisition means that — on some level — amd will be competing with its own customers .
it will be both chip designer and server maker .
but su downplayed this notion .
“ we are not competing with our customers .
we have to balance the fact that will continue to support [ seamicro's ] products .
but the goal is to proliferate the technology with oems , " su said , referring to original equipment manufacturers such as dell and hp .
“ what we saw was a chance to take our technology to multiple markets , with multiple partners , in multiple geographies — in ways we couldn " t do on our own , " said seamicro ceo and new amd general manager andrew feldman .
“ the opportunity to collaborate with the oems was larger than the opportunity to compete with them . " .
advanced micro devices inc. shook up the personal computer industry by buying ati technologies inc. for us $ 5.4-billion yesterday , opening up a new front in the battle with intel corp. to control the computer chip market .
the deal , which had been anticipated for over a year , gives amd high-end graphics technology and bolsters the company 's strategy to overtake intel as the dominant supplier of chips that power personal computers and other devices .
as well , intel has been a buyer of ati 's graphic chips and that relationship looks to be in jeopardy .
" this reconfigures the market and puts amd in an amazingly new strong position , " said jon peddie , an independent chip analyst in san francisco .
amd buys sea micro for $334m to get into energy - efficient “ microservers " .
february 29 , 2012 2 : 27 pm .
there " s a sea change happening in a segment of the server market dubbed microservers .
and sea micro has been at the center of it , disrupting the market with energy efficient servers that use lightweight processors from intel .
advanced micro devices is acquiring sea micro today for $334 million , including $281 million in cash .
sea micro has been disruptive because it can pack a lot of computing power in a server rack that is about a sixth of the usual size .
its servers use a quarter of the usual electricity and cost a lot less .
the servers use intel " s atom microprocessors , which are targeted at energy efficient devices such as tablet computers .
but amd " s move could shake things up for intel , which presumably will lose some of its business .
the advantage of sunnyvale , calif . - based seamicro " s small and power - efficient computers is that enterprises can now shove a lot more computing power into a given amount of space and use a lot less electrical power , thereby cutting electricity bills dramatically .
that matters because electricity costs are the biggest part of the budget for operating data centers .
andrew feldman , chief executive of sea micro has said in past interviews that seamicro had become the fastest - growing system company in silicon valley history .
seamicro " s customers include france telecom , skype , rogers wireless , mozilla , eharmony , and china netcom bb .
hundreds of millions of internet users traverse seamicro " s hardware daily .
as we " ve described in earlier stories , intel has been improving its server microprocessors by making them more power efficient .
but the microprocessor only accounts for a third of the power consumption in a server .
seamicro " s innovation lies in how it attacks the remaining two - thirds of the power consumption problem .
it does so by combining a lot of the extraneous chips into a single , more - efficient custom chip , feldman said .
in its earliest system , seamicro put 384 intel atom dual - core processors ( for a total of 64 - bit 768 cores ) in a 10 - rack system , which is just 17 . 5 inches high .
the newer sm10000 - 64hd was a 20 percent improvement over seamicro " s previous server line and a 150 percent improvement on its compute density record , or the amount of computing power in a given space .
that single machine could replace rival systems with a bunch of equipment : 60 traditional servers , four rack switches , four terminal servers , and a load balancing server .
it uses a quarter of the power and a sixth of the space .
seamicro can put an entire server on a motherboard that is 5 inches by 11 inches .
since the hardware is intel - based , customers don " t have to change their software at all .
seamicro was founded in 2007 and is backed with $60 million in funding by khosla ventures , draper fisher jurvetson , crosslink capital , and a number of strategic investors .
it also won grants from the u . s . departement of energy ( $9 . 3 million ) and the state of california ( $250 , 000 ) .
seamicro has 80 employees .
most recently , it raised $20 million .
seamicro also attacked the power consumption problem with a very clever trick known as virtualization .
today , virtualization is frequently used with servers .
it is a layer of software that rests between an application and the servers that it runs on .
if an application needs only two servers , the virtualization software finds two available servers to run the application .
if the application gets busy and needs 10 servers , the virtualization software finds 10 available servers to do the job .
the application is no longer tied to specific servers ; the virtualization software frees up the overall system and gets more use out of the available servers .
seamicro did the same thing , but it applied the concept of virtualization to the inside of a server .
feldman designed custom chips that could take the tasks that were handled by everything beyond the intel microprocessor and its chip set .
the custom chips virtualize all of those other components so that it finds the resource when it " s needed .
it essentially tricks the microprocessor into thinking that the rest of the system is there when it needs it .
seamicro virtualized a lot of functions that took up a lot of space inside each server in a rack .
it also did the same with functions such as storage , networking , server management , and load balancing .
full told , seamicro eliminates 90 percent of the components from a system board .
seamicro calls this cpu / io virtualization .
with it , seamicro shrinks the size of the system board from a pizza box to the size of a credit card .
by boiling down the rest of the system into a couple of chips , seamicro can get rid of a lot of the components in a system , thereby getting rid of space , cost , and power consumption .
the buy should also expand amd 's manufacturing capability , as well as integrate microprocessors and graphics engines in a single chip .
the acquisition is set to be wrapped up by year 's end .
advanced micro devices ( nyse : amd ) announced the largest acquisition in its history monday , paying about $ 5.4 billion to acquire graphics chip specialist ati technologies .
the acquisition will let amd expand its position in the commercial desktop and mobile computing markets , two areas where the company has not had much success .
in addition to accelerating the company 's x86 processor market share battle with intel ( nsdq : intc ) , the acquisition will expand amd 's access to manufacturing capacity and will lead to products that will integrate both microprocessors and graphics engines in a single chip in future releases .
the startup manages large-scale web infrastructures to prevent downtime related to configuration changes march madness 2008 was carried in full on the internet , on demand thanks to the technology innovations of cbs sports and cbs interactive gm 's tech leader talks about consolidating , re-engineering , upgrading the company 's application infrastructure .
" together we intend to create a processing powerhouse , " said hector ruiz , chairman and chief executive of amd , during a teleconference to announce the deal .
" we are confident the companies will integrate well together .
we believe that as technology advances , integration is not only inevitable , but also advantageous . " .
beginning next year , the companies will market " customer-centric platforms " using amd and ati technologies that will include all existing product offerings .
beginning in 2008 , amd plans to introduce platforms that integrate general purpose processors and graphics engines to meet specific media , data , and graphic requirements , says dave orton , president and chief executive of ati .
bob rivet , cfo of amd , says the acquisition is expected to be completed by year 's end .
the purchase is a combination of $ 4.2 billion in cash and 57 million shares of amd stock .
amd 's current area of greatest strength is providing processors that address the server and consumer desktop market , rivet says .
bringing ati 's graphics technology in-house will allow amd to better address the commercial desktop and laptop markets , he says , two areas where amd currently has a smaller presence .
while overall sales of x86 processors currently totals about $ 30 billion annually , amd is primarily addressing only a segment that totals about $ 13 billion , rivet says .
by expanding more into commercial desktop and laptop markets , amd will be able to grow its overall x86 market share .
rivet says that each percentage of market share gained equates to about $ 300 million in revenue .
ruiz says the acquisition " opens up a broad array of options for expanding our capacity infrastructure " by providing amd with an expanded relationship with some of the largest semiconductor foundries in the world .
currently amd utilizes internal manufacturing capacity , as well as capacity from chartered semiconductor manufacturing .
ati , however , has manufacturing relationships with two of the other largest foundries in the world , taiwan semiconductor manufacturing and united microelectronics .
the acquisition of ati by amd will now provide computer makers and customers with another choice for integrated microprocessor and graphics processor platforms , says bruce shaw , director of worldwide commercial marketing for amd .
currently only intel offers an integrated platform .
although amd will be providing integrated platforms , it will continue to support the use of third-party graphics products , such as those from nvidia , in combination with its processors , shaw says .
amd has no plans to reduce the ati product line or back away from markets it addresses , such as cell phones , where amd has little or no presence , he said .
ati is expected to continue to operate out of its headquarters in markham , ontario , and layoffs are expected to be minimal .
amd buys seamicro , enters server hardware business .
feb 29 , 2012 2 : 31 pm .
advanced micro devices announced wednesday it is buying low - power server vendor seamicro , a surprise move that puts amd in the systems business and disrupts intel by acquiring one of its close partners .
amd will pay us$334 million in cash and stock for seamicro , an 80 - employee silicon valley startup that has gained attention for building highly dense and power - efficient servers for use in large - scale cloud computing environments .
seamicro ceo andrew feldman will become general manager of a new division at amd , the data center server solutions group .
amd plans to sell seamicro - branded servers directly to customers , but it bought the company primarily for its technology , which it hopes to license to other server vendors to build their own low - power systems , amd officials said .
"seamicro has a proven technology that has been benchmarked in key customer sites to show improvements in power consumption and total cost of ownership .
that [ intellectual property ] was very attractive to us , " said lisa su , senior vice president and general manager for amd's products division .
the move will be seen as a setback to intel , which had built a tight partnership with seamicro .
all the servers seamicro currently sells are based on low - power intel atom processors , and just a few weeks ago the companies held a joint press conference where intel sang seamicro's praises .
an intel spokesman declined to comment on the acquisition wednesday before it was officially announced .
amd will continue to sell seamicro servers based on intel processors "for the foreseeable future , " lu said .
by the end of this year , she said , it will release the first seamicro servers based on amd opteron processors .
feldman wouldn't say when seamicro and amd began talks but said the deal came about "unbelievably quickly . " .
he said there were other suitors for the company , including non - chip vendors .
seamicro developed an interconnect technology that allows it to eliminate all but three of the chips on a standard server motherboard .
that allowed it to develop servers that it claims consume one quarter the power and one sixth the space of standard x86 servers .
its products are geared primarily towards high volume , web - based transaction workloads that don't require the computing muscle of a traditional xeon or opteron server processor .
mozilla uses seamicro servers , for instance , to deliver software updates to users .
it's not clear which amd processor seamicro will use as an alternative to intel's atom chip , though amd has several low - power offerings and plans to release a new , low - power chip for tablets , code named hondo , later this year .
however , seamicro has said its technology can also benefit servers based on more powerful processors .
a server based on an opteron chip would be efficient for running mysql and mondodb database workloads , feldman said , as well as php applications used by many online services .
it could also be used to build efficient supercomputers , he said .
it's a new direction for amd , one it hopes will allow it to expand its server business and capitalize on the fast - growing cloud computing market .
spending on servers for such "scale out data centers" is expected to grow 33 percent a year on average for the next several years , amd said , faster than the server market as a whole .
the move puts amd in the difficult position of competing with some of its customers , though lu insisted that will not be a problem .
the scale of seamicro's business today is much smaller than that of a hewlett - packard or a dell , she said , and amd thinks the value of seamicro's technology to server vendors will outweigh their competitive concerns .
amd's server business could use a lift , noted dean mccarron , principal analyst at mercury research .
"they are obviously experiencing a decline and this would be a way to expand the market for their processors , " he said .
amd is paying $281 million in cash for seamicro and the remainder in stock , lu said .
it expects to close the deal in march .
graphic talk about nvidia .
addressing a deficiency of its own and further upping the competitive tension between it and chief rival intel ( nasdaq : intc - news - people ) , advanced micro devices ( nyse : amd - news - people ) intends to acquire graphics chipmaker ati technologies ( nasdaq : atyt - news - people ) in a $ 5.4 billion deal .
is intel below $ 19 too cheap to last or still above what the chipmaker 's worth ?
the question for many is where that leaves nvidia corp. ( nasdaq : nvda - news - people ) , now the sole independent graphics chip maker addressing each of the computing , mobile communications and display markets .
we think not too much worse off than before the deal , and believe shares in the company remain a compelling way to play growth in gaming- and media-oriented computing .
our view of the advanced micro devices / ati technologies deal is that it 's the last major move amd needed to make to match intel 's breadth in the processor market ( now that intel has shed its communications processor business ) .
intel has had for some time the ability to integrate graphics capabilities into its offerings for pc makers , resources for which amd has had to rely on other folks , including both ati and nvidia .
the amd/ati combination now trumps intel 's strategy by adding the capacity to package higher-end chips for gaming and complex graphic manipulation .
we 're not sure that 's a huge game-changer for ati in its ongoing match against nvidia , though .
we doubt amd would shut out nvidia 's ability to integrate with its core processors , as any such move might lessen the attractiveness of amd 's core products to that crowd .
amd's acquisition of seamicro puts intel on the defensive .
mar 2 , 2012 12 : 30 pm .
intel suffered a setback in the server market this week with the news that its former partner , seamicro , is being acquired by amd .
but the world's top chip maker said it was internally developing technology to remain competitive in the dense server market .
intel is developing integrated fabrics to boost i / o and high - performance networking and storage in servers , said jason waxman , general manager of intel's data center business unit , in an interview .
the technologies are being developed as the company tries to boost its presence in the market for dense servers used in cloud computing deployments in data centers .
amd is paying us$334 million for seamicro , which until now was in a tight partnership with intel to develop dense servers .
amd plans to sell seamicro - branded servers and license to customers its fabric technology , which virtualizes i / o and ties together storage and networking .
the deal is expected to close in march .
seamicro provides amd an instant presence in the nascent but fast - growing dense server market , and intel will now be playing catch - up , analysts said .
seamicro currently sells servers only with intel processors , and it is likely that amd will swap those with its own chips .
intel said it will continue to provide processors for seamicro servers , depending on the requirements .
amd's purchase of seamicro was an unexpected but smart move , said nathan brookwood , principal analyst at insight 64 .
the dense server market is growing as companies look to curb electricity costs by deploying low - power servers to respond to web and database queries .
but amd's prize in the acquisition is seamicro's specialized fabric , brookwood said .
seamicro's dense servers have many credit - card - sized motherboards that are connected by the fabric , which reduces the need for extra storage and network controllers .
it could take intel years to develop technology that is competitive with seamicro's fabric , brookwood said .
and intel will need to prove its technology is reliable before it is widely adopted .
"intel has all the pieces and all the technology and the smart people to put this together .
but it takes time , " brookwood said .
the seamicro deal gives amd a technological head start , but it will also intensify intel's focus on developing related technology , said dean mccarron , principal analyst at mercury research .
intel's waxman didn't specify how intel would build the fabric and i / o technology , but said the company would utilize assets from recently acquired networking companies .
in july it acquired fulcrum microsystems , which makes ethernet switches , and last month it purchased infiniband assets from qlogic , which provides high - performance fabric technology for servers .
intel also will remain competitive through new processors , memory and system management technologies .
but by the time intel's fabric technology matures , analysts said that amd could be far ahead in the integration of seamicro's technology inside chips .
amd in the future will allow implementation of third - party intellectual property inside chips , and by 2013 or 2014 , seamicro's ip could be inside opteron server chips .
currently seamicro's asic ( application - specific integrated circuit ) controlling the fabric is placed on the motherboard alongside the processor and memory .
when integrated inside a chip , it could be similar to calxeda's energycore chip , which will be used by hewlett - packard in its upcoming arm server .
the calxeda chip includes cache , an 80 - gigabit fabric switch and a management engine for power optimization .
amd will be able to license the fabric technology to work on arm processors , which could also put pressure on intel , analysts said .
arm processors are mainly found in smartphones and tablets , but there is growing interest in building power - efficient arm servers .
amd will be able to differentiate its offerings from intel's by offering seamicro technology with either arm or x86 processors as early as 2013 , said matt eastwood , group vice president for enterprise platform research at idc .
amd currently offers only x86 chips , but the company's chief technology officer , mark papermaster , has not ruled out implementing arm ip on its future chips .
but intel's waxman said the amd - seamicro deal does not change intel's dense server strategy , and the chip maker will continue to work with customers like dell and tyan .
"a part of our strategy is to provide a full portfolio of ingredients , " waxman said .
"we've got the right assets in our arsenal . " .
taiwan semiconductor manufacturing co. ( tsmc ) shares rose yesterday after two of the world 's largest chipmakers said their merger would not create a negative impact on the hsinchu-based foundry , dispelling investors fears .
tsmc stock traded on the taiex closed at nt $ 53.8 yesterday , up nt $ 0.9 from the previous trading day .
yesterday advanced micro devices inc. ( amd ) , a leading global cpu maker , announced its purchase of canada-based graphics chips maker ati technologies inc. in a us $ 5.4 billion deal that many said would help amd compete more effectively with intel corp. , its largest-in-the-world rival .
analysts also said the merger would cause a reshuffle in the global pc industry , affecting chip foundries - including tsmc - that manufacture intel-based graphics chips for ati on an original equipment manufacturing basis .
ati , the largest maker of computer graphics chips for notebook computers , outsources the manufacturing of its chips , while advanced micro has facilities to produce some of its own processors .
in a news conference announcing the merger held in taipei yesterday , henri richard , executive vice president of amd , urged investors not to worry as ati 's relations with tsmc and its rival united microelectronics corp. would not change .
he said ati and its suppliers use the so-called cmos manufacturing technology , which is different from what amd uses .
umc yesterday closed at nt $ 18 , up nt $ 0.05 .
some analysts however expressed the concern that the merger would impact tsmc in the long run , as loss of ati orders would cause tsmc to see its capacity utilization lowered by 20 to 30 percent .
tsmc , the world 's largest maker of customized chips , said itself monday night it will continue to manufacture for ati .
" as part of amd , ati 's business will continue to operate in a fabless business model and maintain its strong foundry partnership with tsmc , " the company said in an e-mailed statement .
the company said it had held discussions with ati , without providing details .
the merger , meanwhile , is also expected to create an impact on taiwan 's chipset manufacturers .
via , a manufacturer of amd-based chipsets , yesterday saw its shares drop nt $ 0.65 to close at nt $ 24.05 .
altogether the taiex rose 31.36 points yesterday to close at 6,390.99 .
amd to acquire microserver startup seamicro for $334 million .
february 29 , 2012 04 : 23pm est .
advanced micro devices on wednesday announced a deal to acquire startup seamicro , a maker of microservers and data center fabric technology , for $334 million .
seamicro chief executive andrew feldman will become general manager of a newly formed amd business unit called data center server solutions .
"seamicro's leading - edge fabric technology together with amd opteron processors point the way to a compelling roadmap for the cloud data center market , " said lisa su , senior vice president and general manager of amd's global business units , in a discussion with reporters at the chip maker's sunnyvale , calif . headquarters ahead of the announcement .
the company will continue to honor seamicro's existing relationships with its own partners , su said , and will sell seamicro - branded servers , which currently use server chips made by amd archrival intel .
feldman , who also spoke with media wednesday , said seamicro's technology was "processor - agnostic , " so incorporating amd's opteron processors and even non - x86 instruction sets and architectures in future products would be easy to do .
amd representatives said they believed seamicro's unique supercompute fabric was a major innovation in data center technology , characterizing the platform as a "new server building block" which would increasingly make its way into the growing cloud infrastructure space .
"when you're talking about the ability to tie together large amounts of processor cores , hundreds and even thousands , within a server system , there aren't a lot of choices out there [ in terms of competitors ] , particularly if you want to bring ethernet over it and disk traffic over it , there's just us , " said feldman , describing his company's technology .
"nobody else can move both ethernet and disk traffic , because they have very different requirements , " he added .
feldman said seamicro's suitors were numerous in the days leading up to the amd acquisition and included more than just semiconductor companies .
in recent months , intel and other companies had spoken highly of the innovative startup .
"we were fortunate that when we began speaking with amd , they had far and away the most sophisticated view on fabrics , " he said .
"they had already done extensive work on what a next - generation fabric could look like .
they were kindred spirits and when you find that , you can move very quickly .
and they really moved with dazzling speed . " .
amd president and chief executive rory read also addressed the deal in a statement , saying that the seamicro acquisition would accelerate "amd's transformation into an agile , disruptive innovator capable of staking a data center leadership position . " .
amd 's ati acquisition will not affect india operations .
india will figure prominently in amd 's $ 5.4bn acquisition of ati technologies , as both the semiconductor giants have their operations in the country .
amd has its design centre in bangalore while ati 's r and d unit is located in hyderabad .
though the exact contours of the merger and its implications in india are not known , both are expected to maintain their existing portfolios of operations as both concentrate on different segments .
" the combination will create a processing powerhouse by bringing amd 's technology leadership in microprocessors together with ati 's strength in graphics , chipsets and consumer electronics , " amd said in a statement .
ati technologies india md dasaradha r gude told et that the combination would drive growth and the indian operations would also be expanded .
" our work is complementary to each other and does not overlap .
with this merger , we would also be able to address bigger markets , " he said .
the amd statement said , " we can not speculate on the implications of the merger for another 90-120 days , till the time integration is complete . " .
amd acquires seamicro – big bet on architectural shift for servers .
summary : rich fichera looks at the risks and potential rewards of amd's recent acquisition of innovative server startup seamicro .
march 1 , 2012 - - 07 : 58 gmt ( 23 : 58 pst ) .
at its recent financial analyst day , amd indicated that intended to differentiate itself by creating products that were advantaged in niche markets , with specific mention , among other segments , of servers , and to generally shake up the trench warfare that has had it on the losing side of its lifelong battle with intel ( my interpretation , not amd management " s words ) .
today , at least for the server side of the business they made a move that can potentially offer them visibility and differentiation by acquiring innovative server startup seamicro .
seamicro has attracted our attention since its appearance ( blog post 1 , blog post 2 ) , with its innovative architecture that dramatically reduces power and improves density by sharing components like i / o adapters , disks and even bios over a proprietary fabric .
the irony here is that seamicro came to market with a tight alignment with intel , who at one pint even introduced a special dual - core packaging of their atom cpu to allow seamicro improve its density and power efficiency .
most recently seamicro and intel announced a new model which featured xeon cpus to address the more mainstream segments that were not a for seamicro " s original atom - based offering .
so what does amd hope to gain from this acquisition ?
the strategic goal is a differentiated server architecture into which they can insert amd silicon and ip .
the seamicro architecture shares many of the characteristics of the calxeda / hp redstone architecture , and can potentially allow amd to produce reference architecture for its system partners to leverage that gives them significant density advantages over any conventional x86 server offering .
since this architecture is initially targeted at dense computing environments such as those found in web 2 . 0 , cloud service providers and similar workloads , as well as potentially at conventional hpc , the prospects for amd are interesting .
long - term success will hinge on several interlocking factors .
1 . how much will amd focus this offering on the ultra - dense space that seamicro started addressing versus trying to also take a bite out of the enterprise space ?
2 . how aggressively will they scale it ?
the seamicro fabric does not extend beyond the single enclosure boundary , but that appears to be an implementation decision , not a fundamental architectural issue .
my personal belief is that fabric - based servers are the wave of the future , with seamicro calxeda / hp serving as very significant guidelines for future development .
scaling the fabric first for management and then for actual data traffic for shared i / o and eventually for coherent memory operations if needed is a natural progression .
3 . what other ip will amd add ?
amd has an interesting portfolio of gpu technology as well as cpu , and the incorporation of gpu technology could provide further differentiation in niche markets .
amd has a choice of ways to monetize this ip , from selling systems based on its own processors ( possibly as early as late this year ) to providing reference designs and / or licensing the architecture or selling components like the fabric asics .
4 . will they also support arm processors ?
if amd becomes the source of licensed ip for vendors wanting to chase hp in ultra - dense servers , they can also make money by licensing their technology and selling components for non - x86 architectures .
5 . what will intel do ?
at least one of intel " s partners , hp , already has a fabric - based dense server design that can support x86 .
will intel develop a similar reference architecture in the hopes that their major systems partners will adopt it ?
all in all , many ways this could play out , but a bold move and one that may serve to trigger a rapid change in the types of servers available to users over the next 24 months .
3 / 27 / 2012 @ 10 : 05am .
amd completes seamicro acquisition headed to $9 .
amd has completed its acquisition of seamicro as part of its strategy to regain lost server market share from intel and better position itself against future competition from arm - based players such as nvidia .
we previously wrote on how amd can benefit from this acquisition ( see amd picks up seamicro to strengthen server market offering ) .
here we take a brief look at the price that amd paid for seamicro , and what this implies about its growth expectations .
amd shelled out $334 million for the acquisition of seamicro .
since seamicro " s revenues or other financials were not disclosed , it becomes difficult to gauge whether the price paid was cheap or steep .
however , based on certain assumptions , it is possible to understand the range of amd " s growth expectations from seamicro .
for the purpose of calculations , we assume that seamicro operates at ebitda margin of close to 25% and apply similar corporate expenses ( as % of revenues ) including taxes , capital expenditures and others that we apply for amd .
if we assume seamicro " s revenues for 2012 will be somewhere around $50 million , it implies that amd expects seamicro " s revenues to grow at an average annual rate of 43% to 44% over the course of our forecast period , which extends till 2018 .
these revenues include both seamicro " s revenues as well as incremental benefit in server - related revenues from the acquisition .
on the other hand , if we assume seamicro " s revenues for 2012 to be of the order of $150 million , it implies that amd " s growth expectation for seamicro and related incremental server revenues stands at somewhere around 16% to 17% .
according to amd " s own calculations , it has paid a handsome price for the acquisition .
our price estimate for amd stands at $9 . 21 , implying a premium of little under 15% to the market price .
hp to acquire data center consultants .
on november 13 , 2007 .
electronics manufacturer hewlett - packard ( hp . com ) announced on tuesday that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities ( eypmcf . com ) , a consulting company that specializes in strategic technology planning , design and operations support for large - scale data centers .
although no financial terms of the transaction were disclosed , it is expected to be completed within hp " s first fiscal quarter .
by acquiring eyp mcf , hp will be able to help customers to better transform their data centers , optimize energy efficiency and position them for future business growth , says the company .
headquartered in new york , eyp mcf has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the us and the uk .
the firm provides mission - critical services to enterprises around the world in business sectors including financial services , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state and county government agencies .
hp says that eyp mcf " s capabilities , particularly its expertise in energy - efficient operations , complement hp " s extensive data center services and cost - saving power and cooling solutions , such as dynamic smart cooling .
“ the data center is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " says john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp services .
“ acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp " s ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . " .
hewlett - packard makes another acquisition , chases ibm .
posted nov 14th 2007 12 : 41pm .
hewlett - packard corp . ( nyse : hpq ) has opened up its checkbook once again .
this time , the world's largest tech company by sales announced that it will be buying eyp mission critical facilities inc .
that company , which provides data center consulting services , will become a division of hp for an undisclosed sum , according to sources .
is this a move to compete more headily with tech giant ibm corp . ( nyse : ibm ) ?
it could certainly be seen that way .
hp's growing presence in providing data center services and contract consulting is the core of ibm's business model these days , now that the latter is out of the hardware business .
eyp provides design , technology planning and support for large data centers - - the kind that runs a large u . s . bank , credit card operation or manufacturing business .
this is right in ibm's territory , and the move should put hp in a more competitive position to challenge ibm as a premier provider of computing services consulting .
does hp's mark hurd want to grow the company he leads into the biggest computing hardware and services manufacturing company the world has ever seen ?
in a word , yes .
november 15 , 2007 , 7 : 40 am .
hewlett - packard engineers deal for eyp .
hewlett - packard agreed to buy eyp mission critical facilities , a data center engineering firm , for an undisclosed sum in a deal that will provide an exit for ta associates .
the boston private equity firm invested $57 . 5 million in eyp mission critical in 2001 .
the target " s officials said at the time its post - money valuation was about $120 million .
hp's mark hurd : thoughts on consolidation .
summary : during his keynote at oracle openworld , hp ceo mark hurd gave his views on market consolidation .
it's an appropriate setting given oracle has made 41 acquisitions in 45 months totalling .
november 12 , 2007 - - 18 : 19 gmt ( 10 : 19 pst ) .
during his keynote at oracle openworld , hp ceo mark hurd gave his views on market consolidation .
it's an appropriate setting given oracle has made 41 acquisitions in 45 months totalling .
hp is no slouch at acquisitions in its post - compaq era , with more than 20 in the last few years , including mercury for $4 . 5 billion for and most recently opsware for $1 . 6 billion .
today , hp announced a small acquisition , eyp mission critical facilities , a datacenter consulting service with 350 employees , while oracle took a day off from its pursuits , which recently included bea .
hurd sees continuing industry consolidation and vertical integration going forward , which is no surprise .
lately , some mid - size companies being bought out by private equity firms , and the larger companies are still on the hunt .
today , ibm took out cognos for $5 billion .
but he seems to suggest that the market is shaping up for some very large scale transactions in the next few years .
"in the end , math wins .
a handful of players have in excess of $100 billion in cash revenue .
we'll see more consolidation , not less .
at the same time , we are all getting a push from an it perspective to do more standardization and to have fewer suppliers , " hurd said .
over time , fewer suppliers means moving from the large buying the small - and medium - sized to the large munching on the large , more mergers of near equals , carving up the market into fewer fiefdoms within the complex bounds of global regulatory approval .
"it could happen in two or three years if the right alignment of players occurs , " he added .
hurd didn't elaborate on the "right alignment of players , " and made a point of saying that he wasn't making a prediction .
he explained that companies with lots of cash can pay dividends to shareholders , buy back stock or make acquisitions .
"you have to measure the value of the three choices , and in many cases potential m&amp;a activities will rise to the top . " .
"you can figure it out as well as i can , " hurd told the rapt openworld crowd .
"the numbers won't mislead you . " .
hurd is well known for his acumen with the numbers , but gave no further insights .
following the trajectory of the numbers for a moment , it's not that far fetched to see hp and oracle in a consolidation supernova if the planets align in a certain way .
or , how about sap and ibm , or some other combination .
or cisco and hp .
or microsoft and ? ? ?
take your pick .
it's just ungoverned speculation , but consolidation in maturing market tends toward singularity .
of course , that could be the beginning of the end for those long established brands , as google or a company no one had heard of rears its head and completely changes the rules of the game .
nov 13 , 2007 , 1 : 17pm est .
hp will buy eyp mission critical facilities .
hp of palo alto , calif . , said it has agreed to acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design and operations support for large data centers .
financial terms were not disclosed .
headquartered in new york city , eyp mcf has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the united states and the united kingdom .
its albany office , at 54 state st . , had total capital region engineering billings of $7 . 2 million in 2006 , according to the business review's latest list of engineering firms .
twenty of the office's 40 employees are engineers .
hp said eyp mcf's expertise in energy - efficient operations are an attractive complement to hp's data center services and its power and cooling products and services . .
peter gross , ceo of eyp mcf , said worldwide data - center requirements are growing rapidly .
significant increases in power consumption is fueling demand for greater energy - efficiency , he said , which eyp mcf and hp will incorporate in the planning and design of data centers .
hp expects the transaction to be completed during hp's first fiscal quarter , which will end jan . 31 , 2008 .
hewlett - packard to buy consulting firm eyp mission critical facilities news	 .
15 november 2007 .
technology products and services company hewlett - packard said on monday 12 november that it has agreed to buy data centre consulting company eyp mission critical facilities for an undisclosed sum .
the new york - based eyp specialises in technology planning , design and operations support for large data centres .
it has about 350 employees with offices in the us and the uk .
its customers are in the financial services , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and health care sectors , as well as the government .
hp said the acquisition will boost its ability to help clients improve their data centres and build new computing environments .
the deal is expected to close in january 2008 .
can eds remain vendor-neutral under hp` s thumb ?
will eds remain open-minded about obtaining products and services from other vendors ?
industry analysts contacted by eweek generally say they believe that hewlett-packard 's forthcoming $ 13.9 billion acquisition of electronic data systems ? announced officially on may 13 is a good move for both companies , although there will be the usual integration snafus over vendor neutrality issues , business lines , culture shock and layoffs .
analysts have also said it is a good move overall for customers and potential customers , because the combined company will offer them a greater palette of products and services from which to choose .
a combined hp-eds will certainly put a new kind of pressure on it services leader ibm .
ibm 's $ 54 billion-per-year global services arm-by far the largest in the world-will start to feel the heat from the combined hp-eds entity , which will start out at a net worth of $ 38 billion per year .
for high-end enterprise it services before this merger , the market consisted of ibm and everybody else .
it swiss army knife is all can openers .
the biggest unanswered question on people 's minds involved vendor neutrality for eds and its current customers .
eds for years was a sort of it swiss army knife in that it used whatever products and services from other vendors were needed to complete its job correctly and within budget constraints .
with its impending new ownership by one of those key vendors , that picture may change .
" we do n't know what will happen with eds ' vendor neutrality , " rick sturm , founder and president of enterprise management associates , told eweek .
overall , my take is that this transaction sounds great in theory , but there many potential pitfalls .
this is one of them .
for example , eds has largely standardized on management software from ca .
will they migrate to hp software now ?
that would take a long time and a lot of money , " sturm said .
" on the other hand , it does n't make sense to help support a competitor with license and maintenance fees .
that is just one small point regarding neutrality . " .
eds , in fact , has a large current contract with ca for network and systems management in direct competition to hp 's openview .
ca had no immediate comment may 13 .
at least initially , sturm said , there will be little noticeable impact on customers from the deal .
" there will probably be some service impacts once the organizations truly merge and consolidate resources , " he said .
" [ hp cio ] randy mott has been driving data center consolidation and standardization .
i expect that effort will be renewed with eds .
disruptions are inevitable with such migrations . " .
hp acquires eyp mission critical facilities .
november 12th , 2007 .
hp has signed a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . ( eyp mcf ) , one of the leading data center design and engineering firms .
hp said the acquisition will help its customers equip their data centers for improved energy efficiency and high - density environments .
financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed .
eyp mcf is headquartered in new york and has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the united states and the u . k .
the company has designed hundreds of technology - intensive mission critical facilities .
eyp mcf " s expertise in green data center design and energy efficiency was a driver in the deal , as it aligns with hp " s extensive power and cooling solutions , such as dynamic smart cooling .
“ the data center is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " said john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp services .
“ acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp " s ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . " .
“ worldwide data center requirements are rapidly growing , with significant year - over - year increases in power consumption , which is fueling demand for energy - efficient power and cooling strategies , " said peter gross , chief executive officer of eyp mcf .
“ hp and eyp mission critical facilities will drive innovation by integrating it infrastructure into the planning and design of the data center , enabling the customer " s whole organization to be more energy efficient and adaptive . " .
eyp staff are familiar to many in the industry for their presentations at conferences .
gross has spoke often on the advantages of dc power distribution in data centers , while richard sawyer has given well - received presentations on managing risk from the emergency power off ( epo ) button .
the deal is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed within hp " s first fiscal quarter .
hewlett-packard is negotiating to buy technology services provider electronic data systems in a deal that could help the world 's largest personal computer maker snap up more data management and consulting contracts .
palo alto-based hp and plano , texas-based eds confirmed the talks yesterday shortly after the wall street journal reported a deal could be reached as early as today .
citing unnamed people familiar with the matter , the journal said hp will pay $ 12 billion to $ 13 billion - a price that translates to $ 24 to $ 26 per share .
the companies declined to comment beyond their confirmation of the talks .
eds shares soared $ 5.27 , or nearly 28 percent , to finish yesterday at $ 24.13 .
hp shares dropped $ 2.49 , more than 5 percent , to close at $ 46.64 as investors fretted over the deal 's logistics .
hp ended january with nearly $ 10 billion in cash .
with a market value of about $ 115 billion , hp could easily use its own stock to finance the purchase .
like many corporate marriages , bringing together hp and eds could trigger cultural clashes that ruin the union , said amr research analyst dana stiffler .
" palo alto versus plano wrangling will destroy any short-medium-term benefit unless there 's a strong integration road map , " she predicted .
if the deal is completed , it would be hp 's biggest acquisition since it bought compaq computer corp. for $ 19 billion in 2002 .
hp has been trying to expand its technology consulting and data management business for years , hoping to challenge rival ibm 's leadership in the lucrative field .
in 2000 , hp attempted to buy pricewaterhousecoopers ' consulting division before those discussions unraveled .
ibm wound up buying pricewaterhousecoopers ' consulting arm instead .
the demand for technology consulting and customer support services has steadily grown during the past two decades as the automation of corporate america and the rise of the internet prompted more businesses to hire outside help to help ensure all the computer software and hardware runs smoothly .
ibm 's technology services division brought in revenue of $ 54 billion last year , accounting for half of the company 's total sales .
combined , eds and hp 's technology services division had about $ 39 billion in revenue last year .
acquiring eds also could yield more government work for hp , which had about $ 500 million in prime federal contracts in fiscal 2007 .
eds is far better connected , with deals worth about $ 2.5 billion - putting it among the top 10 among government technology contractors .
combined , hp and eds still would lag significantly behind government contractors such as lockheed martin corp. and boeing company .
eds earned $ 716 million on $ 22.1 billion in revenue last year .
the texas company has been linked with possible deals previously , including a reported interest by deutsche telekom late last year and dell before that .
none of the companies ever confirmed reports that they were talking .
former ibm salesman h. ross perot left ibm to start eds in 1962 and practically invented the business of running other companies ' computer systems , now called information-technology or it services .
perot sold eds to general motors for $ 2.5 billion in 1984 and eventually became so disillusioned with how that deal worked out that he sold his remaining eds shares to the carmaker so he could start a rival service bearing his name .
gm spun off eds as an independent company in 1996 and remained its largest customer .
eds was riding high at the start of the decade , despite the dot-com bubble 's bursting .
but in late 2002 , earnings shortfalls led to investor lawsuits , a securities and exchange commission investigation , the ouster of the chief executive and a sharp drop in the stock price .
the company lost $ 1.7 billion in 2003 , but it gradually righted itself under ceo michael jordan , a retired cbs and westinghouse ceo who was hired to lead a turnaround .
jordan fixed some money-losing contracts , including a multibillion-dollar deal to build a communications network for the navy and marine corps , and began cutting costs by sending thousands of jobs to low-cost countries such as india .
hp to expand data center services with acquisition of global consulting company eyp mission critical facilities .
nov . 12 , 2007 .
hp today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . ( eyp mcf ) , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design and operations support for large - scale data centers .
by acquiring eyp mcf , hp will be better able to help customers to transform their data centers , optimize energy efficiency and position them for future business growth .
financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed .
headquartered in new york , eyp mcf has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the united states and the u . k .
the firm provides mission - critical services to enterprises around the world in business sectors including financial services , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state and county government agencies .
from data centers and command and control centers , to trading floors and supercomputing sites , eyp mcf has designed hundreds of technology - intensive , high - performance facilities where monitoring , operational and energy efficiencies are top - priority business requirements .
eyp mcf " s capabilities – particularly its expertise in energy - efficient operations – complement hp " s extensive data center services and cost - saving power and cooling solutions , such as dynamic smart cooling .
“ the data center is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " said john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp services .
“ acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp " s ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . " .
peter gross , chief executive officer of eyp mcf , said , “ worldwide data center requirements are rapidly growing , with significant year - over - year increases in power consumption , which is fueling demand for energy - efficient power and cooling strategies .
hp and eyp mission critical facilities will drive innovation by integrating it infrastructure into the planning and design of the data center , enabling the customer " s whole organization to be more energy efficient and adaptive . " .
the transaction is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed within hp " s first fiscal quarter .
media teleconference .
hp will hold a media teleconference to discuss the announcement at 7 : 15 - 7 : 45 a . m . pt today .
dial - in number : +1 877 268 9324 .
conference id : 24256919 .
a replay of the call will be available later in the day .
about eyp mission critical facilities , inc .
eyp mission critical facilities , inc . ( www . eypmcf . com ) is a consulting firm whose unique approach to achieving clients " energy - efficient operational continuity is based upon the integration of strategic technology planning , innovative design and on - site support .
through developing proprietary products and processes , authoring technical white papers , and presenting at international conferences , eyp mcf is recognized as a worldwide thought leader in the mission - critical industry .
about hp .
hp focuses on simplifying technology experiences for all of its customers – from individual consumers to the largest businesses .
with a portfolio that spans printing , personal computing , software , services and it infrastructure , hp is among the world " s largest it companies , with revenue totaling $100 . 5 billion for the four fiscal quarters ended july 31 , 2007 .
more information about hp ( nyse : hpq ) is available at http : / / www . hp . com .
hewlett-packard bets eds will fuel hot streak .
with its second-largest deal , computer giant hopes to grab bigger share of the $ 550 billion technology-services market .
riding a hot streak that has doubled its stock price in three years , hewlett-packard is rolling the dice on a $ 13.2 billion acquisition of technology services provider electronic data systems .
the all-cash deal , announced tuesday , represents hp 's biggest gamble under the leadership of mark hurd , who was hired as chief executive in march 2005 to turn around the maker of personal computers and printers .
hurd has relentlessly cut costs while demanding better execution from the company 's remaining workers .
meanwhile , hp has recovered from a nagging financial hangover that was exacerbated by the biggest acquisition in its 69-year history -- the $ 19 billion purchase of compaq computer , completed in 2002 over strident shareholder objections .
hewlett-packard 's purchase of electronic data systems could mean tougher competition for ibm and its 10,500 triangle employees .
hp estimates that the deal , when completed , will give it about 7 percent of the technology services market , compared with ibm 's 10 percent share .
that means that if things go well long term , hp could catch big blue in the business of providing technology services such as data management , information technology outsourcing and consulting , said morningstar equity analyst rick hanna .
" while ibm is a clear no. 1 now ... hp-eds is a real player and potentially a long-term threat , " hanna said .
in the short term , ibm has little to worry about , hanna said , given its clear leadership in technology services , which accounts for about 60 percent of its revenue .
now hp will try to show that it learned from its mistakes by making the second-largest deal in its history pay off more quickly .
investors are worried that hp is taking an unnecessary risk on eds , whose disappointing profit margins had caused its stock to drop by about 30 percent in the past year .
hp shares sagged $ 2.56 tuesday to finish at $ 44.27 .
" it appears to be a very daunting deal , " said american technology research analyst shaw wu .
the $ 25-per-share sale price represents a nice payoff for eds stockholders , who will receive a nearly 33 percent premium compared with the company 's share price before news of the hp talks leaked out monday .
eds shares added 26 cents to close at $ 24.34 tuesday .
including eds ' net debt , hp values the acquisition at $ 13.9 billion .
based on eds ' nearly 530 million common shares , restricted stock units and options , the sales prices works out to $ 13.2 billion .
that represents about one-fourth of the $ 50 billion increase in hp 's market value since hurd joined the company .
hp prizes eds because it wants to become a much bigger competitor in technology services -- a wide-ranging category that includes running computer data centers , stitching together software programs and consulting on special projects for business and government clients .
hp gets into data center design ; acquires eyp mission critical facilities .
published : 13 nov 2007 .
hewlett - packard co . announced yesterday that it will acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . , a data center consulting business , to bolster its own position in the data center facilities space .
big blue to meet its match in hp-eds .
the repercussions from the merger of electronic data systems ( eds quote - cramer on eds - stock picks ) with hewlett-packard ( hpq quote - cramer on hpq - stock picks ) will ripple broadly throughout the tech industry .
h-p announced tuesday that it will buy the outsourcing services company for $ 13.9 billion .
the deal will be bad " for anyone that does n't have h-p or ibm ( ibm quote - cramer on ibm - stock picks ) on their business card , " said idc analyst bob welch .
even ibm , the leader in the global services and outsourcing business , will ultimately feel the pressure. gartner puts the worldwide market for it services in 2007 at $ 748 billion .
with $ 54 billion in services revenue , ibm had 7.2 % of the market .
at $ 22 billion , eds had 3 % , while h-p had 2.3 % .
and the merger could throw a wrench into eds 's agility alliance , a group of vendors that regularly coordinate to supply hardware , networking , software and services to eds 's outsourcing clients .
the partnership has been very effective for eds and its partners , welch said .
hp acquires eyp mission critical facilities .
hp today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design , and operations support for large - scale data centers .
11 / 12 / 2007 .
hp today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . ( eyp mcf ) , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design , and operations support for large - scale data centers .
by acquiring eyp mcf , hp will be better able to help customers to transform their data centers , optimize energy efficiency , and position them for future business growth .
headquartered in new york , eyp mcf has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the united states and the uk .
the firm provides mission - critical services to enterprises around the world in business sectors including financial services , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing , and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state , and county government agencies .
from data centers and command and control centers , to trading floors and supercomputing sites , eyp mcf has designed hundreds of technology - intensive , high - performance facilities where monitoring , operational , and energy efficiencies are top - priority business requirements .
eyp mcf " s capabilities %%mdassml%% particularly its expertise in energy - efficient operations %%mdassml%% complement hp " s extensive data center services and cost - saving power and cooling solutions , such as dynamic smart cooling .
“ the data center is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " said john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp services .
“ acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp " s ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . " .
peter gross , chief executive officer of eyp mcf , said , “ worldwide data center requirements are rapidly growing , with significant year - over - year increases in power consumption , which is fueling demand for energy - efficient power and cooling strategies .
hp and eyp mission critical facilities will drive innovation by integrating it infrastructure into the planning and design of the data center , enabling the customer " s whole organization to be more energy efficient and adaptive . " .
the transaction is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed within hp " s first fiscal quarter .
hp and eds combined would be about the same size as ibm global services .
industry sources have confirmed to eweek that hewlett-packard will acquire electronic data systems for about $ 13 billion .
the announcement may come as early as may 14 , the source told eweek .
hp acknowledged the news first earlier may 12 .
" there can be no assurances that an agreement will be reached or that a transaction will be consummated , " hp said in a statement .
" hp does not intend to comment further until an agreement is reached or discussions are terminated . " .
eds 's response came about an hour later , also in the form of a statement .
in response to market rumors , electronic data systems corporation announces that it is in advanced discussions regarding a possible business combination transaction with hewlett-packard company .
the company does not intend to comment further unless and until a definitive agreement has been entered into .
there can be no assurance that a definitive agreement will be entered into , " the eds statement read .
the impending deal would make the newly merged company worth about $ 22 billion and put it on a level with ibm , the largest it services company in the world .
eds is the world leader in outsourced it services ; .
hp provides outsourced services too , but focuses mostly on hardware , software and associated services .
hp to acquire data center cooling , energy specialist eyp .
november 12 , 2007 03 : 57 pm .
hewlett - packard on monday said it has agreed to buy eyp mission critical facilities , a consulting company that specializes in data center cooling and energy efficiency .
financial terms were not disclosed .
the acquisition , expected to close by the end of january , would provide hp with proprietary services and technology related to one of the hottest issues today in data center planning and design .
because eyp services start at the ground level of data - center design , the company would give hp an early entry with its cooling technology and energy - efficient storage products .
eyp , based in new york , has 350 employees spread through 13 offices in the united states and the united kingdom .
most of its operations , employees , and management team would be folded into hp .
eyp is led by chairman steven einhorn and chief executive peter gross .
the need for more storage is growing as companies expand their businesses and strive to meet legal and regulatory requirements for handling electronic documents .
additional storage , however , also can increase energy consumption to run and cool more powerful servers .
eyp's proprietary products and services include eneropt , a software - based process to assess and benchmark energy efficiency ; a cooling design concept called cool design ; and a direct current powered facility design called dc2 .
"acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp's ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up , " john mccain , senior vp and general manager for hp services , said in a statement .
industries in which eyp has customers include financial services , technology , telecommunications , broadcast , manufacturing , and health care .
the company also serves federal , state and local government agencies .
besides the eyp deal , hp has made other data center - related acquisitions this year .
the largest was the $1 . 6 billion purchase of opsware , a maker of data center automation software ; and the $214 million buy of neoware , a maker of hardware and software for thin - client desktop systems .
impact of eds merger on south charleston unclear .
it 's too early to tell what impact - if any - hewlett-packard co. 's decision to acquire electronic data systems corp. will have on eds ' operations in south charleston , an eds spokesman said .
earlier this month hewlett-packard unveiled a bid of nearly $ 14 billion bid to purchase eds .
eds has about 50 employees in building 6000 at the south charleston technology park .
the workers manage the federal department of housing and urban development 's computer network of more than 18,000 users in more than 80 locations .
eds won the 10-year contract in 2003 .
bill ritz , eds spokesman , pointed out that hewlett-packard 's acquisition of eds still needs the approval of regulators and eds ' stockholders .
" the deal is supposed to close sometime in the second half of 2008 , " ritz said .
" until it closes , both companies are competitors and it will be business as usual .
we will continue to put our customers first and serve them and help them compete in the global marketplace . " .
any cuts in staff are pure speculation at this point , ritz said .
" a lot of work still needs to be done , " he said .
" we need to let this play out and keep the focus on our customers and remember we are separate companies now . " .
hp snaps up data center consulting firm .
posted 2007 - 11 - 12 .
the acquisition of eyp mission critical facilities will help the oem expand its services division .
in a move that will expand its services division , hewlett - packard will acquire eyp mission critical facilities , a new york company that offers data center consulting services .
financial details of the acquisition , announced nov . 12 , were not disclosed .
hp announced that the deal would close during its first financial quarter .
eyp mission , which has 350 employees and 13 offices in the united states and the united kingdom , helps plan , design , build and support large - scale data centers .
in a statement , hp executives said eyp missions emphasis on designing energy - efficient facilities will complement its own data center technology , such as hp dynamic smart cooling .
at the hp technology forum &amp; expo in june , ceo mark hurd said the company needs to move away from its traditional roots as a hardware company that sells pcs and servers and toward a business that focuses on delivering software and services to customers .
part of the change is to offer more services for businesses that are looking to revamp or build new data centers , with an emphasis on offering better power efficiency by cutting down on power and cooling costs .
in addition to hp , the other top - tier oems—ibm sun microsystems and dell—have looked to expand their services divisions as a way to add to the bottom line , while offering customers a new set of choices to support data centers by lending their own level of expertise to the problems of maintaining these types of facilities .
"the data center is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " john mccain , senior vice president and general manager of hp services , said in a statement .
eyp mission has experience in a number of fields that require data center services , including financial services , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state and county government agencies .
hewlett-packard 's ceo says he believes the eds acquisition will make the company 's service offerings stronger .
hewlett-packard ceo mark hurd believes that the $ 13 billion acquisition of electronic data systems will help build out hp 's enterprise services offerings and " accelerate " the company 's reach into new accounts , he said .
in a may 20 conference call with reporters to announce hp 's 2008 second-quarter financial earnings , hurd offered his thoughts on the upcoming acquisition of eds .
while hurd could not say when the deal would close , he noted that hp is already looking at ways to integrate its software and services portfolio with eds ' business .
hurd implied that hp will streamline costs to make the acquisition profitable for shareholders as soon as possible .
several analysts have said they believe that hp , through its acquisition of eds and other companies , is looking to build a services division that will create an all-in-one shop for building state-of-the art data centers .
hp to acquire green consultancy eyp .
hp signs agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities and incorporate energy - efficient - facilities expertise into hp's data center services .
november 12 , 2007 02 : 14 pm et .
as part of its efforts to support energy - efficient computing , hp monday announced it has signed an agreement to acquire facilities consulting firm eyp mission critical facilities for an undisclosed sum .
hp says the deal , which will bring eyp mcf's 350 employees into a new division under hp services , will help hp better address customers' needs for more efficient data centers .
the combined eyp and hp services will let large , enterprise companies couple efficient facilities design with an optimized it infrastructure .
until recently , hp officials say , it executives handled facilities and data - center design efforts separately .
with this acquisition , hp aims to bring the two more closely together and help build dynamic computing environments from the start .
"data center transformation is a key focal point for the hp services team , " says john mccain , senior vice president and general manager of hp services .
"power consumption is becoming one of the largest components in terms of the bill in data centers today . " .
to combat the increase in energy spending , hp labs has developed technology to conserve energy and delivers it via such products as hp dynamic smart cooling and hp thermal zone mapping .
the deal , according to eyp mcf representatives , will let consultants expand beyond facilities planning and offer expertise in large - scale data - center design .
"it infrastructure is ready for a major paradigm shift in the way that mission - critical facilities are delivered to the marketplace , " says steve einhorn , chairman of eyp mcf .
"the data center and its facility are ready for a major change . " .
hp says it expects the deal to close by its first fiscal 2008 quarter , which ends january 31 .
november 12 , 2007 .
hp lands green datacenter consultant eyp .
extending its reach into the ripening green - consulting space , hp today announced the acquisition of eyp mission critical facilities , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design and operations support for large - scale datacenters .
extending its reach into the ripening green - consulting space , hp today announced the acquisition of eyp mission critical facilities , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design and operations support for large - scale datacenters .
the financial details of the acquisition were not disclosed .
hp's aim , however , is clear : to tap into the growing demand for more energy - efficient datacenters by bolstering its existing data center services , and no doubt hawking more hp gear along the way .
"the datacenter is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " said john mccain , senior vice president and general manager of hp services in a written statement .
"acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp's ability to help customers transform their datacenters and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . " .
eyp has developed a green reputation since its establishment in 2001 as a split - off from a / e giant einhorn yaffee prescott .
headquartered in new york with 13 offices worldwide and technical staff of more than 350 , the company's arsenal of tools includes a homegrown software package called eneropt , designed to assess and optimize energy consumption in the datacenter .
among its clients , the company claims 25 percent of the fortune magazine's list of top epa green partners .
moreover , the company designed the first leed - rated datacenter for fannie mae in urbana , maryland , and is currently designing a datacenter for the lawrence berkeley national labs .
like other big - name hardware companies , including ibm , dell , and sun , hp has been playing up the green credentials of its wares , such as its smart dynamic cooling offering , power capping features in its systems insight manager software , and its recently announced line of more energy - efficient proliant bl460c blades .
moreover , the big boys of technology have also started adding more green - hued services to their portfolios .
in august , ibm added http : / / blogs . business2 . com / greenwombat / 2007 / 08 / ibm - moves - into - . html "&gt;carbon consulting to business consulting operation .
also in august , sun unveiled an eco services suite .
bt is also on the list .
hp's acquisition of eyp is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed within hp's first fiscal quarter .
hp digs further into consulting .
november 12 , 2007 10 : 30 pm .
hp has been moving fast and strong into services and have continued the trend with today's acquisition of eyp mission critical facilities , a consulting firm specializing in large data center design and operations support .
coming on the heels of last month's expansion of their saas offerings , one imagines that before long you will simply be able to turn your keys over to hp and take off on a long vacation while they provision , support , and run your business .
in fact , this may not be far from the vision that ceo mark hurd has for the company , as revealed today also during his keynote speech at oracle's openworld conference .
consolidation has clearly been on his mind , and the recent acquisitions presage more in the future , driven as he states by " ... a push from an it perspective to do more standardization and to have fewer suppliers , " as well as a number of players with an excess of cash on hand .
while i am certainly one of those pushing from the it perspective to have fewer suppliers and more standardization , you have to be careful how you go about it , and although i am sure acquisition such as eyp mcf are brilliant for hp's business , i am skeptical about their value to customers .
i think the conflation of purveyors of advice with purveyors of service and equipment is dangerous and if anyone was expecting to get unbiased opinion out of eyp mcf about the gear to build out their data center with , that's probably gone by the wayside .
consolidation can be a boon when it results in better alignment and firmer standards ; the danger is when the alignment locks you in to a vendor and the standards turn out to be proprietary .
jury convicts man in woman's death .
saturday , 28 september 2013 01 : 43	 .
a jury in eastern oklahoma has convicted a spiro man of two counts of first - degree murder in the 2012 shooting death of his pregnant girlfriend .
the jury deliberated almost seven hours thursday before convicting 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson in the death of 20 - year - old ka'loni flynn , of fort smith , ark .
the jury recommended the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole , the southwest times record reported ( http : / / bit . ly / 16vdn3e ) .
he is to be sentenced nov . 8 .
prosecutors allege that simpson shot flynn twice in the head because he did not want another child to support .
a dna expert testified that simpson fathered the fetus .
"i'm glad it's over .
i'm glad we got the verdict we got , " said flynn's father , herbert flynn .
"she deserved it . " .
during closing arguments , crawford county deputy prosecuting attorney jacob howell showed a photograph of flynn's body in the driver's seat of car , with bullet wounds to her temple and forehead .
some audience members gasped loudly .
"we know that's how we got here , " howell said , indicating the photo .
prosecutors acknowledged that the case against simpson was complicated and mostly circumstantial .
jury convicts spiro man in shooting death of pregnant girlfriend .
posted : sep 27 , 2013 5 : 50 pm .
updated : sep 27 , 2013 5 : 50 pm .
a jury in eastern oklahoma has convicted a spiro man of two counts of first - degree murder in the 2012 shooting death of his pregnant girlfriend .
the jury deliberated almost seven hours thursday before convicting 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson in the death of 20 - year - old ka'loni flynn of fort smith , ark .
the southwest times record reports that the jury recommended the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole .
formal sentencing is set for 11 a . m . on nov . 8 .
prosecutors allege that simpson shot flynn twice in the head because he did not want another child to support .
a dna expert testified that simpson fathered the fetus .
simpson's attorney , warren gotcher , argued that no witnesses could place simpson at the shooting scene and that his client was innocent .
the murder trial of a spiro man charged in the deaths of a pregnant arkansas woman and her fetus is underway in poteau .
prosecutors have charged 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson with two counts of first - degree murder in the april 2012 shooting death of 20 - year - old ka'loni flynn of fort smith and the resulting death of the fetus .
the times record reported friday that trial is expected to last several days .
prosecutors say simpson called flynn several times and arranged to meet her on a rural road , then shot her in the head .
defense attorney warren gotcher said simpson did not call flynn and never owned a phone like the one that called her the night she was killed .
gotcher also denied that simpson was the father of flynn's baby .
scott peterson has been found guilty of first-degree murder , a verdict that means he could be executed if these same jurors vote as the " conscience of their community " that he deserves to die for his crimes .
so scott peterson was convicted because he 's a liar and a cheat and a fink and because his famous lawyer was unable to come up with a plausible explanation for why laci peterson 's body washed up where it washed up .
in fact , he was convicted in part because defense attorney mark geragos offered so many explanations for peterson 's conduct and laci 's disappearance that prosecutors were able to make jurors laugh about the implausibility of them all .
in essence , the jury concluded that the circumstances surrounding laci peterson 's disappearance and death could not reasonably be explained in any other way but that scott peterson wanted her dead so he could continue and perhaps expand his secret life with amber frey .
peterson was found guilty because jurors believed he had a motive to kill his wife and that peterson 's conduct -- before , during and after laci peterson 's disappearance -- was too suspicious to be purely coincidental .
posted september 26 , 2013 - 3 : 47pm updated september 27 , 2013 - 6 : 56am .
leflore jury : simpson guilty of killing pregnant girlfriend .
a spiro man was found guilty of two counts of first - degree murder thursday evening in the 2012 shooting death of a fort smith woman and the subsequent death of her 8 - to 12 - week - old fetus .
a nine - woman , three - man leflore county jury deliberated almost seven hours before finding christopher kenyon simpson , 27 , guilty of two counts of first - degree murder .
jurors recommended the maximum sentence , life without the possibility of parole and a $10 , 000 fine on both counts .
formal sentencing is set for 11 a . m . nov . 8 before leflore county district judge jon sullivan .
flynn's father herbert flynn of fort coffee said later , "i'm glad it's over .
i'm glad we got the verdict we got .
she deserved it . " .
after the courtroom emptied , crawford county deputy prosecuting attorney jacob howell and district 27 assistant district attorney anthony evans credited the verdict in the complicated and mostly circumstantial case to smart , attentive jurors .
in closing arguments on the sixth day of simpson's trial , howell projected onto a video screen a photo of 20 - year - old victim ka'loni flynn's body sitting in the driver's seat of her car , bullet wounds to her forehead and temples .
some audience members gasped audibly in the crowded , otherwise quiet courtroom gallery .
"we know that's how we got here , " howell said , indicating the photo .
"i hope we showed you this was investigated thoroughly , and that every possible suspect was investigated and excluded except one , " howell said .
the prosecution contends simpson planned the murders , then shot flynn execution - style twice in the head on easter sunday , april 8 , 2012 , killing her and her fetus because he did not want another child to support , and flynn refused an abortion .
a dna expert testified earlier that simpson fathered the fetus .
howell contended simpson's planning began in early april 2012 when he asked mackenzi clayton , a relative , about tracking a pay - as - you - go phone .
throughout the investigation and court proceedings , simpson repeatedly denied having bought such a phone despite a walmart video showing him doing so , then on wednesday he testified he bought it , but for clayton , not for himself , howell said .
howell reminded the jury that flynn's roommate testified flynn left their apartment around 10 : 30 p . m . april 8 , a time matching the 10 : 30 p . m . call simpson's cousin's wife testified she saw him engaged in at her garage .
howell reminded jurors that verizon wireless , cricket wireless and federal bureau of investigation cellular analysis experts testified about how the calls between the phone simpson purchased and flynn's phone pinged in cell towers covering the u . s . 271 corridor where simpson planned to spend the night with his cousins in fort smith and the rural mcginnis lane area between pocola and spiro where flynn's body was found .
between 10 : 37 and 10 : 58 p . m . april 8 , the pay - as - you - go phone called flynn's phone six times .
arkansas state trooper mary minor testified she pulled flynn over at 10 : 46 p . m . for speeding on interstate 540 .
flynn was heading toward oklahoma , minor stated .
howell said at 11 : 01 p . m . flynn's phone called the pay - as - you - go phone , and two employees of the sac - n - pac near mcginnis lane testified they heard two to three gunshots around 11 p . m .
howell contended simpson's whereabouts were not accounted for between 10 : 30 p . m . and 11 : 21 p . m . , when he made a purchase at an e - z mart near his cousins' home .
and howell reminded jurors that simpson's cousins testified they became concerned about simpson's prolonged absence for the quick trip to the e - z mart and called him three times beginning at 11 p . m .
those calls rolled to voice mail .
in his closing statement , defense attorney warren gotcher of mcalester argued that the two sac - n - pac clerks stayed outside on their smoke break for 10 minutes after hearing the gunshots and never saw a car exit mcginnis lane .
gotcher argued the timeline evidence showed simpson couldn't have been involved .
he said area resident erica hawkins saw flynn's car in the roadway at 11 : 41 p . m . , and pulled around to shine her bright headlights on it .
he reminded jurors that hawkins testified the driver's window was rolled down and she saw a red light inside the car , but she didn't see anyone in the car .
gotcher suggested the light could have been from a phone charger found unattached on the seat next to flynn .
gotcher said when deputy terry springwater arrived on the scene around 3 a . m . april 9 , the car window was rolled only three - fourths the way down , the parking lights were on , the trunk was unlatched and there was a body in the car .
gotcher reminded jurors an oklahoma state bureau of investigation expert testified that flynn's body had not been moved after she was shot .
"sometime between 11 : 41 p . m . and 3 a . m . , the window was rolled three - fourths the way down , parking lights turned on and trunk unlatched and maybe the phone charger disconnected , " gotcher contended .
he contended , too , that clayton testified as the prosecution wished because he was afraid his parole would be revoked , and that simpson's cousins , likewise , testified as they had because they'd been threatened with a firearms charge and having their child taken away .
evans contended simpson attempted character assassination of flynn and attempted to divert blame for her murder to others because "the defendant has the spotlight on him , and it's hot , and he needs to get it off him .
so what does he do ?
he pushes it over here .
desperate men do desperate things . " .
evans contended simpson destroyed or manipulated evidence throughout the investigation .
"i submit to you that beyond a reasonable doubt , the defendant is guilty of killing ka'loni flynn , and when he shot her , he also killed his own child , " evans said .
on november 12 , a jury in redwood city , california , convicted scott peterson of first-degree murder in the death of his wife , 23-year-old laci , and second-degree murder in the death of his 8-month-old unborn son , whom the couple were planning to name conner .
laci disappeared from the couple 's home in modesto , california , 23 months ago .
the bodies of laci and conner later washed up in the san francisco bay , near where scott told police he had gone fishing the day his wife disappeared .
okla . man guilty of killing pregnant girlfriend .
published 9 : 46 pm cdt sep 26 , 2013 .
an oklahoma man was found guilty thursday on two first - degree murder charges for the deaths of an arkansas woman and her fetus , according to crawford county deputy prosecuting attorney jacob howell .
christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee is accused of fatally shooting ka'loni marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
prosecutors allege simpson shot flynn after she told him she was pregnant .
flynn's body was found in a car near spiro on april 9 .
simpson faces life in prison .
he will be sentenced november 8 .
dozens of people in laci peterson 's hometown who were donating blood in her memory applauded when they heard a jury 's decision to execute scott peterson for the murder of his pregnant wife .
oklahoma man pleads not guilty in deaths of arkansas woman and her fetus .
published : january 3 , 2013 .
an oklahoma man has pleaded not guilty to two first - degree murder charges for the deaths of an arkansas woman and her fetus .
trial is set for june 17 for 26 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee , who is accused of fatally shooting ka'loni marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
a local newspaper reports that simpson has been held without bond at the leflore county jail since his arrest on june 21 .
flynn's body was found in a car near spiro on april 9 .
prosecutors allege simpson shot flynn after she told him she was pregnant .
lawyers for simpson don't want prosecutors to be able to use phone records that allegedly place simpson in the area of the slaying on grounds that authorities obtained them without a warrant .
laci peterson 's loved ones have " a hole in their hearts that will never be repaired , " a prosecutor told jurors today as he asked them to send convicted double-murderer scott peterson to his death for killing his wife and unborn son .
the jury convicted the 32-year-old peterson on nov. 12 of first-degree murder for killing his wife and second-degree murder for the death of his unborn son .
okla . man guilty of killing pregnant girlfriend .
an oklahoma man was found guilty thursday on two first - degree murder charges for the deaths of an arkansas woman and her fetus , according to crawford county deputy prosecuting attorney jacob howell .
christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee is accused of fatally shooting ka'loni marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
prosecutors allege simpson shot flynn after she told him she was pregnant .
flynn's body was found in a car near spiro on april 9 .
simpson faces life in prison .
he will be sentenced november 8 .
peterson , 32 , was convicted of two counts of murder in the deaths of his wife , laci , and her fetus .
christopher simpson shoots pregnant girlfriend dead cause he didn't want another child to support .
an oklahoma jury has found 27 year old christopher simpson guilty of first degree murder of his then pregnant 20 year old girlfriend ka'loni flynn and their 12 week unborn child .
the murder came after flynn resisted simpson's demands to have an abortion and his reluctance with having to 'deal with another child to support . ' .
in finding christopher simpson guilty the jury recommended that he be sent to maximum life in prison without parole .
his sentencing is scheduled for november 8 .
prosecutors allege that simpson , who has at least one child from a past relationship , shot flynn twice in the head because he did not want another baby to support .
a dna expert testified that the 27 - year - old fathered the 12 - week - old fetus .
the murder is said to have taken place on april 9 at 3 am in flynn's car which was parked at the time .
it wasn't until in late june that authorities arrested christopher simpson believing that he was the chief instigator of her death .
told the deceased's father , herbert flynn jr : 'i'm glad it's over .
i'm glad we got the verdict we got .
she deserved it . ' .
during closing arguments , crawford county deputy prosecuting attorney jacob howell showed a photograph of flynn's body in the driver's seat of car , with bullet wounds to her temple and forehead .
prosecutors went on to acknowledge that the case against simpson was complicated and mostly circumstantial .
told howell : 'i hope we showed you this was investigated thoroughly , and that every possible suspect was investigated and excluded except one . ' .
simpson's attorney , warren gotcher , argued that no witnesses could place simpson at the crime scene and that his client was innocent .
prosecutor anthony evans countered by telling that simpson was trying to deflect blame because 'the defendant has the spotlight on him , and it's hot , and he needs to get it off him .
so what does he do ?
he pushes it over here .
desperate men do desperate things . ' .
according to a police affidavit , the couple had been dating for about three months when the 20 - year - old found out she was pregnant .
purportedly simpson became angry and expressed that he did not want to be a father again .
pushed to get an abortion , flynn declined telling christopher simpson that she did not believe in abortion .
of course the better question may have been if either one of the couple believed in using contraceptives and if not why ?
herbert flynn jr told 5news after simpson's arrest that on the night of his daughter's murder , she was planning to meet with her boyfriend to ask for help in applying for government assistance .
around the time of the shooting , simpson was late on child support payments for his 7 - year - old daughter , and according to a local sheriff , he had made statements to his friends that he did not want another child .
after flynn's death , a witness told police that simpson bragged to him that his girlfriend's killing will never be solved because it was 'too clean' and 'the perfect murder . ' .
the 20 - year - old woman , who aspired to be a nurse , allegedly told a friend a short time before the slaying that simpson had threatened to end the pregnancy for her if she refused to abort the baby .
the case first captured the nation 's attention when laci peterson disappeared from her modesto home the day before christmas 2002 and has engrossed the country ever since .
unlike on nov. 12 , when sobs filled the air as peterson was found guilty of murdering his wife and their unborn child , there was an almost surreal stillness in the courtroom while the death recommendation was announced .
peterson was convicted nov. 12 of first-degree murder for the death of laci peterson and second-degree murder for the death of their unborn son just before christmas 2002 .
the same jury that recommended peterson 's penalty found him guilty of the first-degree murder of his wife and the second-degree murder of his unborn child .
jury convicts spiro man in shooting death of pregnant girlfriend .
posted : sep 27 , 2013 10 : 50am cdt .
a jury in eastern oklahoma has convicted a spiro man of two counts of first - degree murder in the 2012 shooting death of his pregnant girlfriend .
the jury deliberated almost seven hours thursday before convicting 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson in the death of 20 - year - old ka'loni flynn of fort smith , ark .
the southwest times record reports that the jury recommended the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole .
formal sentencing is set for 11 a . m . on nov . 8 .
prosecutors allege that simpson shot flynn twice in the head because he did not want another child to support .
a dna expert testified that simpson fathered the fetus .
simpson's attorney , warren gotcher , argued that no witnesses could place simpson at the shooting scene and that his client was innocent .
a jury found scott peterson guilty friday of killing his pregnant wife , laci , and their unborn child in the saga of suburban adultery and betrayal that transfixed much of the nation for nearly two years .
peterson , a 32-year-old fertilizer salesman from modesto , showed no emotion , staring stonily at the jury box as the foreman announced a finding of first-degree murder in the death of laci and second-degree murder in the death of their near-term son , whom the couple had named conner .
man found guilty of shooting dead pregnant girlfriend execution - style because 'he didn't want another child to support' .
september 27 , 2013 .
a jury in eastern oklahoma has convicted a 27 - year - old man of shooting dead his pregnant girlfriend and her unborn baby after she refused to get an abortion .
the jury deliberated almost seven hours thursday before convicting christopher kenyon simpson , of spiro , in the death of 20 - year - old ka'loni flynn , of fort smith , arkansas .
the jurors recommended the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole .
simpson is scheduled to be sentenced november 8 .
upon learning of his death sentence , scott peterson sat defiantly still and tight-jawed , the same vacant expression he wore throughout a murder trial in which he never spoke .
man found guilty of shooting dead pregnant girlfriend execution - style because .
released 2013 - 09 - 28 05 : 08 : 35 gmt .
a jury in eastern oklahoma has convicted a 27 - year - old man of shooting dead his pregnant girlfriend and her unborn baby after she refused to get an abortion .
the jury deliberated almost seven hours thursday before convicting christopher kenyon simpson , .
an oklahoma man has pleaded not guilty to two first - degree murder charges for the deaths of an arkansas woman and her fetus .
trial is set for june 17 for 26 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee , who is accused of fatally shooting ka'loni marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
the southwest times record reports simpson has been held without bond at the leflore county jail since his arrest on june 21 .
flynn's body was found in a car near spiro on april 9 .
prosecutors allege simpson shot flynn after she told him she was pregnant .
lawyers for simpson don't want prosecutors to be able to use phone records that allegedly place simpson in the area of the slaying on grounds that authorities obtained them without a warrant .
