perennial party girl tara reid checked herself into promises treatment center , her rep told people .
" we appreciate your respect to her and her family 's privacy at this time , " the 33-year-old actress 's rep jack ketsoyan told the magazine exclusively for their web site .
ketsoyan would not say what the " american pie " star was being treated for .
a friend of the actress told people she went to promises on tuesday and that her friends and family supported her decision .
reid launched a new fashion line called mantra in december .
lindsay lohan checks into betty ford center .
may 03 , 2013 .
after skipping out on entering a newport beach rehabilitation facility and facing the prospect of arrest for violating her probation , lindsay lohan has checked into the betty ford center to begin a 90 - day court - mandated stay in her reckless driving conviction .
lohan was previously at betty ford from september 2010 to january 2011 after a probation violation in a prior drunk driving case .
her latest stay at betty ford comes after lohan rear - ended a truck with her porsche on pacific coast highway on june 8 , and then lied to police , telling them she was not driving .
tara reid has entered a rehab program , the american pie star 's rep confirmed to people and us weekly on friday .
the news comes as a shock for everyone who just assumed the seldom-seen actress had been holed up there for a while - at least when she was n't touring u.s. frat houses and/or tequila conventions .
" tara reid has checked herself into promises treatment center , " reid 's rep told us .
" we appreciate your respect to her and her family 's privacy at this time . " .
no specific reason or addiction was given for her treatment .
when reid was n't getting attention for her sometimes fun/sometimes scary breasts , the actress was getting attention for her often-shambolic love of partying .
reid 's messy lifestyle led to her short lived e ! -series , taradise , that followed her to exotic locales where she would party .
somehow , reid managed to mess up the dream-job/easiest job ever by being too wasted and out of control to film it .
" it was a mess , " she said of the show .
" i did n't know it was going to ruin my career .
people forget i 've done , like , 20 movies .
i 'm not just a party girl. " .
while reid has been out of the cinematic spotlight , she recently launched a clothing line , mantra , and is dating french fashion designer julien jarmoune .
in an interview in october , reid told people she was a " social drinker " who 's no longer tempted to fall back into her old habits .
" no .
i 've done it .
trust me .
i 've done enough for a lifetime of everything .
i 've had a great time .
i partied .
i had fun .
i ate and drank whatever .
i dated a million guys , but i 'm so happy with where i 'm at right now .
i do n't need to do anything anymore . " .
lindsay lohan checks into rehab at betty ford center , rehires longtime lawyer shawn holley .
actress lindsay lohan finally checked into court - mandated rehab at the betty ford center late thursday , after hiring former lawyer shawn holley for help .
published : thursday , may 2 , 2013 , 1 : 32 pm .
updated : friday , may 3 , 2013 , 9 : 56 am .
lindsay lohan checked into california's betty ford center rehab facility late thursday , dodging arrest after whirlwind confusion surrounding the actress' whereabouts , sources told the daily news .
it's the same place the troubled starlet sought help in 2010 , where she got into a physical altercation with a staffer .
well , here 's something that we all knew would happen eventually .
tara reid has checked into promises treatment center , a prominent rehab clinic in los angeles .
in the late 90s reid was a pop bubblegum princess with a starring role in the american pie franchise and a relationship with carson daly .
now she 's known primarily for partying far too hard and accidentally exposing her naughty bits to the paparazzi .
it 's too late for her to salvage a hollywood career , but at least she can keep her liver from shriveling into a little grey ball .
well , it is n't even released yet , but apparently the positive buzz surrounding the trailers for terminator salvation is enough to warrant making a sequel .
mcg made the announcement in dubai over the weekend , stating that the project was shooting for a 2011 release date .
now , i 'm as excited to see the new terminator movie as anybody , but is this really a good idea ?
what if the film is terrible and bombs at the box office ?
warner brothers appears to be pretty damn confident about this one .
we 'll see what happens .
sadly last week we learned that ricky gervais would not be hosting the oscars .
this was a disappointing blow , but there was hope that chris rock , jon stewart or another favourtie host of recent years would get a chance to return .
sadly that 's not the case .
instead hugh jackman will be hosting what will undoubtedly be the most bland and unfunny oscar night in recent memory .
seriously , jackman ?
why is he qualified to do this ?
they are n't even trying to find good people to host that show anymore .
lindsay lohan is mia after pretending to check into unlicensed calif . rehab center .
may 2 , 2013 | 5 : 03pm .
" the " mean girls " star fooled an l . a superior court judge , a santa monica prosecutor and apparently her own lawyer , by pretending to check into a rehabilitation facility , but chickening out when she got there .
prosecutor terry white told the post a couple hours after a court hearing -- where lohan " s lawyer mark heller said she was " ensconced in the bosom " of morningside recovery in newport beach -- " i hear she " s on her way to lax and getting on a flight back to new york . " .
unfortunately , morningside is unlicensed and photogs snapped her shopping for gadgets at the very moment of her alleged check in .
lohan reportedly pulled up to morningside in an suv but the vehicle left without the actress ever getting out .
" the facility that lindsay is now in , that " s not a licensed residential drug treatment center , " california department of alcohol and drug program deputy director millicent tidwell told the post .
it 's about time , right ?
perpetual mess tara reid has finally decided to try and shed her drunk-girl image and has entered rehab .
" tara reid has checked herself into promises treatment center , " her rep told usmagazine.com .
" we appreciate your respect to her and her family 's privacy at this time . " .
the actress , who has n't done anything to speak of in years , has been seen , on so many occasions , wasted out of her mind , unwittingly flashing the paparazzi on the red carpet , looking scary-skinny , and making really d-list personal appearances .
rehab has been calling her name loud and clear for years .
best decision ever .
good luck , tara .
lindsay lohan checks into rehab to begin 90 - day stint , lawyer says .
05 / 02 / 2013 .
lindsay lohan has checked into a rehab facility to begin a 90 - day court - ordered stint , handed down as part of a sentence for a 2012 car crash case .
however , it remains unclear whether a judge will accept her placement at the center , whose location was not revealed publicly , the associated press reported , quoting her lawyer mark heller as saying on may 2 that prosecutors have not approved it yet .
one of them told the judge he needed more time to investigate the place and the judge has given him a may 10 deadline , the news wire said .
tara reid finally checks into rehab for undisclosed reasons .
it 's been a long time coming , but tara reid has finally entered malibu promises treatment center on tuesday , her rep told people.com .
the 33-year-old hard partying actress finally decided to put an end to her drinking days and get help for her addictions , although her publicist refused to disclose the real reason why reid checked into rehab .
in a statement released to people , the " american pie " star 's rep jack ketsoyan confirmed that she was at the same clinic where britney spears , ben affleck , charlie sheen , and lindsay lohan were previously treated , and pleaded for her and her family 's privacy at this time .
" her friends and family are supportive of her decision , " a friend of the actress said .
" she checked in herself - it was her decision . " .
following her breakthrough in 1999 's " american pie , " the actress has been better known for her partying habits and personal life rather than her movies , which were n't that many in the first place .
three years ago , reid , who has launched a new fashion line called mantra in september , opened up about her party girl image saying it was n't accurate and her entourage was a bad influence as well .
" my picture is taken only when i have a cup in my hand , " she told us weekly .
" trust me , my body is tired .
i partied hard .
but i think it was that the people i partied with were not the best people . " .
earlier this year , the star said she had turned a corner from being a hard-hitting drinker and was now a " social drinker . " .
when asked about the temptation to fall back into old habits she said she had enough fun and a great time to last her a lifetime .
" i 'm so happy with where i 'm at right now .
i do n't need to do anything anymore , " she added .
besides " american pie " and her e ! reality show " taradise , " .
reid has had a recurring role on " scrubs " and starred in " van wilder " and " the big lebowski . " .
lindsay lohan checks into betty ford rehab -- where she 'knows everyone' .
updated 05 / 03 / 2013 at 11 : 00 am edt .
originally published 05 / 03 / 2013 at 10 : 20 am edt .
lindsay lohan checked into the betty ford clinic in rancho mirage , calif . , on thursday night , for what is to be a three - month stay , her rep confirms to people .
"and she showed up [ at morningside recovery ] in the morning and hated it .
she is interested in going back to betty ford because she knows everyone there . " .
lohan , who has been in rehab a total of five times before this , was previously in betty ford in 2010 .
prior to this check - in to betty ford , which was first reported by tmz . com , california prosecutors had said late thursday that the troubled actress , 26 , would be arrested if she continued to flout a court order to enter a rehab facility .
the beautiful party girl tara reid is taking the time this season and checking herself into rehab .
yesterday , on friday , reid apparently felt she needed to be checked in without really saying why she was going in .
people are assuming it 's her party life that is bringing her into rehab , or maybe she 's just going crazy .
according to various reports tara reid 's representative jack ketsoyan left a statement for the press , he said .
" we appreciate your respect to her ( tara reid ) and her family 's privacy at this time . " .
apparently the beautiful breast slippin babe 's problem is not getting out much like spears problems were laid out in the media by the paparazzi and friends of the family .
of course who could forget the breast slip photo of tara reid on the red carpet where she had no idea her entire left boob was hanging out as reporters snapped tons of pictures and were laughing at her. ( c ) tpc .
lindsay lohan check into betty ford after fleeing other rehab facility .
may 3rd , 2013 2 : 00pm edt .
after leaving rehab in newport beach , calif . , less than an hour after checking in on thursday , lindsay lohan admitted herself to the betty ford center , according to tmz . com .
her lawyer negotiated with court officials to change the venue of her 90 - day treatment , and the actress traveled to nearby rancho mirage to register as a patient .
the actress spent time at the betty ford center in 2010 ; however , a member of the staff ended up suing her for assault .
lindsay lohan checks into rehab in newport beach ; investigation of facility pending .
may 2 , 2013 1 : 35 pm .
lindsay lohan has checked into rehab in newport beach , calif . , and will remain there for the time being , pending an investigation of the facility she chose .
this despite the fact that , at the 11th hour , lohan bailed on rehab in a new york facility that was approved by prosecutors and a judge and flew to l . a .
the good news is that tara reid is getting help , according to people magazine , for boozing it up too much .
" tara reid has checked herself into promises treatment center .
we appreciate your respect to her and her family 's privacy at this time , " the actress 's rep jack ketsoyan tells people .
the rep would not reveal what reid , 33 , is being treated for .
the even better news is that her boobs are still big .
the bad news is that they are crooked , a bit off-tilt , if you will .
tara is not going to enjoy promises , there is no open bar , from what i understand .
do n't forget to tip your waitresses and waiters tara .
this is such a warm holiday story , i am about to melt .
i wonder what this means for mtv 's beach house , where tara 's crooked boobs are somewhat of an iconic symbol for the show ?
this could get interesting .
lindsay lohan checks into rehab at betty ford center .
may 3 , 2013 at 7 : 31 am et .
updated 5 : 40 p . m . et .
early friday morning , around 1 : 30 a . m . , the 26 - year - old actress checked into betty ford center in rancho mirage , calif .
the notorious party girl , who makes headlines for her wild antics and plastic surgery-enhanced figure , had checked into the promises treatment centre in malibu , her publicist confirmed .
he did not say what reid was being treated for .
" we appreciate your respect to her and her family 's privacy at this time , " he said .
reid , 33 , was infamously photographed topless on the red carpet when her dress slipped off , exposing one of her breasts .
reid has starred in american pie , and had a guest role in television sitcom scrubs .
she has admitted several of her cosmetic surgery enhancements were botched .
she last month dumped her manager in an attempt to clean up her image .
lindsay lohan checks into unapproved rehab .
12 : 52 p . m . edt may 2 , 2013 .
she checked in today .
lohan lawyer mark heller told l . a . superior court judge james r . dabney that lohan had checked into a rehab , but prosecutors have not signed off on the facility , reports ap .
she hopped on a private jet wednesday night , headed for morningside recovery in newport beach , calif . , a facility that does allow smoking .
cnn says lohan's lawyer , mark heller , made the arrangements for lohan to check into morningside , but prosecutors have not approved that facility .
tara reid is seeking help at rehabilitation facility in california .
the actress , who shot to fame in 1999 movie american pie , decided to check in last week .
it is unclear what she is being treated for .
'tara reid has checked herself into the promises treatment center , ' her rep says in a statement .
'we appreciate your respect to her and her family 's privacy at this time . ' .
tara , 33 , was previously engaged to mtv host carson daly in 2001 .
but they called it off only months before their wedding .
she is currently dating her business partner julien jarmoune , 34 .
lindsay lohan checks into betty ford clinic , rehires attorney shawn holley .
may 3 , 2013 at 1 : 10pm .
the 26 - year troubled starlet narrowly avoided jail time by checking into a second rehab center following her quick exit from morningside recovery in newport beach , calif . on thursday , may 2 .
santa monica chief deputy city attorney terry white confirmed to the the associated press that lohan has checked into an approved rehab facility .
a source tells the associated press that the liz &amp; dick star is now receiving treatment at the betty ford center in rancho mirage , calif . where she has spent time before .
lohan caused a stir on thursday after she checked out of morningside recovery after only a few minutes , risking jail time with a probation violation .
now that lohan is back at betty ford center , she has also decided to rehire her former attorney shawn holley , who had been at her side during many of her courtroom appearances .
during lohan's stay at the famed betty ford center in 2010 , lohan was accused of attacking a female staffer , but she was not charged .
another day in hollywood ; another star in rehab .
word comes from people magazine and other celebrity news outlets that tara reid , 33 , who starred in " american pie " and appeared on u.s. tv show " scrubs , ' ' has entered the promises treatment center in malibu , california - the same facility that in the past has been the rehab facility of choice for many a hollywood star .
people said reid 's representative jack ketsoyan confirmed the actress 's stay at promises .
lindsay lohan leaves betty ford , checks into malibu rehab .
first published : june 13 , 2013 4 : 59 pm edt .
lindsay lohan has left the betty ford center and is moving to a rehab facility in malibu , calif . , access hollywood has confirmed .
a spokesperson for the los angeles superior court confirmed to access that a judge signed an order yesterday allowing the transfer to cliffside , where she will continue with her 90 - day court - mandated rehab .
lohan " s attorney , shawn holley , spoke out about the move .
" lindsay is grateful for the treatment she received at the betty ford center .
she has completed her course of treatment there and looks forward to continuing her treatment and building on the foundation established at betty ford , " holley said in a statement to access .
the actress checked into the betty ford center in may as part of a plea deal stemming from her june 2012 car accident case .
lindsay lohan checks out of betty ford treatment center and into malibu rehab .
posted on thu jun 13 , 2013 08 : 45 am pdt .
lindsay lohan has checked out of the betty ford treatment center in palm springs after completing a 30 - day program , but she's not in the clear yet !
the mean girls star just checked - in to the cliffside rehab center in malibu , where she will receive extended treatment , tmz reports .
lawyer : lindsay lohan checks into rehab facility .
may 2 , 2013 12 : 50 pm .
lindsay lohan has checked into a rehab facility to comply with her sentence in a misdemeanor driving case , but her arrival there was not without drama .
"my client is ensconced in the bosom of that facility right now , " heller argued after a prosecutor objected to lohan's choice of rehab facilities . " .
she's in rehab right now .
nothing bad is going to happen . " .
white said he was "completely blindsided" by lohan's placement at morningside because heller had previously agreed to send the actress to a different facility that had been vetted .
a publicist says tara reid has checked herself into rehab .
jack ketsoyan said friday that the " american pie " star went to the promises treatment center .
he did not specify what she was being treated for or when she entered the facility .
" we appreciate your respect to her and her family 's privacy at this time , " he said in a statement .
reid , 33 , earned a reputation as a drunken partier after famously being photographed on a red carpet with her breast exposed , apparently unaware that the strap of her dress had fallen off .
her film credits include " van wilder " and " the big lebowski . " .
she also hosted the short-lived , half-hour show " taradise " on e !
may 2 , 2013 , 1 : 12 pm .
lawyer : lindsay lohan checks into rehab facility .
updated 4 : 08 p . m . et .
lindsay lohan's attorney said thursday the actress checked into a southern california rehab facility that a state official said is unlicensed to perform the type of treatment a judge required her to receive .
mark jay heller told a judge that lohan was settling in at morningside recovery , a treatment facility in newport beach .
"my client is ensconced in the bosom of that facility right now , " heller argued after a prosecutor objected to lohan's choice of rehab facilities .
"she's in rehab right now .
nothing bad is going to happen . " .
tmz reported lohan was shopping at an electronics store while her attorney was in court , and that she never entered morningside .
white said he was "completely blindsided" by lohan's placement at morningside because heller had previously agreed to send the actress to a different facility that had been vetted .
tara reid has seemingly spent the last decade out and about , but her latest destination hits much closer to home .
the american pie actress and velvet-rope fixture has checked into promises treatment center in malibu , according to her publicist , jack ketsoyan .
" we appreciate your respect to her and her family 's privacy at this time , " he said .
ketsoyan did not say what reid is being treated for and no other details were forthcoming .
the move comes as a surprise to reunion pictures ' matthew o'connor , who coproduced reid last year on the made-for-tv horror flick vipers .
" tara was 100 percent professional , " he told e ! news .
" she came in totally prepared every day . " .
" absolutely not , " o'connor said when asked whether he had noticed any warning signs that reid might have a problem .
" she was better than fine - great . " .
the 33-year-old reid , whose personal life and plastic-surgery travails have earned her far more headlines than her career over the last few years , described herself to people a few months ago as " a social drinker . " .
when asked whether she was still a party girl , the taradise star said , " i 've done enough of everything for a lifetime !
i partied .
i had fun .
i ate and drank and dated a million guys , but i 'm so happy with where i am right now .
i do n't need to do any of that anymore . " .
reid recently started her own clothing line , mantra , but her last notable acting gig was a guest arc on scrubs back in 2005 .
lindsay lohan checks out of rehab . . . to check into different rehab centre .
14 june 2013 .
the actress has left the betty ford centre and gone to malibu's cliffside resort .
one place lindsay is finding this particularly difficult though is at the betty ford centre , where the actress has just finished 30 days' worth of treatment and has decided that the renowned facilities there won't be enough to keep her around for her court - ordered 90 - day stay in rehab , so she's gone elsewhere .
according to a report from tmz published this week ( june 13 ) , the mean girls actress has had enough of the palm springs rehab centre and has decided to spend the rest of her court - ordered stay in a rehab centre in malibu , named the cliffside .
lindsay hasn't messed around in getting to the new facility either and she is reportedly already a patient of the cliffside rehab centre , having checked out of the betty ford centre on thursday ( june 13 ) this week and committing herself to cliffside almost immediately afterward .
tara reid has finally looked in a mirror and got a glimpse of what was starting back .
the actress who is known more for staggering around town than actually appearing on the big screen , finally checked into rehab .
in a statement from her people , it was confirmed , " tara reid has checked herself into promises treatment center . " .
promises is the home away from home for many stars including britney spears , lindsay lohan and ben affleck .
tara is known for her roles in american pie and van wilder .
she also starred in the ill-fated party show , taradise , on the e ! network which premiered in september 2005 was canceled the following month .
lindsay lohan checks into rehab , checks out two minutes later .
may 2 , 2013 .
the judge should know to never ever trust a gnome with a law degree , because they are shifty shits and will lie to you with a twinkle in their eyes .
that " s exactly what lilo " s lawyer mark heller did in court this morning .
he told the judge that lilo was " ensconced in the bosom of " rehab this morning when she was really buying crap at fry " s in fountain valley , ca .
the nydn says that lilo eventually made it to morningside recovery in newport beach , but two minutes after she walked through the door , she walked back through it and left .
according to the nydn , lilo showed up to morningside at around noon , spent a couple of minutes there , got spooked by the paparazzi ( uh huh ) and then jumped back into her suv .
well it 's better late than never , tara .
the original trainwreck tara reid 's publicist confirmed that the actress reid was admitted into promises treatment center in los angeles , california .
" we appreciate your respect to her and her family 's privacy at this time , " the actress 's rep jack ketsoyan tells people magazine .
reid checked herself in on tuesday , december 9 , 2008 .
her rep , however , declined to reveal reid 's reason for this seemingly abrupt decision .
reid 's , 33 , acting abilities had always been overshadowed by her 'party girl ' reputation , and certainly set the bar for young starlets like lindsay lohan and paris hilton .
in an october interview with people , reid claimed she was a 'social drinker ' and that her crazy past was far behind her .
'i 've done it .
trust me .
i 've done enough for a lifetime ofeverything .
i 've had a great time .
i partied .
i had fun .
i ate and drank whatever .
i dated a million guys , but i 'm so happy with where i 'm at right now .
i do n't need to do anything anymore , ' she told the magazine .
apparently , old habits die hard .
hopefully , promises will help her get back on track .
lawyer : lindsay lohan checks into california rehab .
may 3 , 2013 | 8 : 20 am .
lindsay lohan " s attorney said thursday the actress checked into a california rehab facility , but a state official said it is unlicensed to perform the type of restrictive in - patient treatment a judge required the actress to receive in a misdemeanor driving case .
mark jay heller told a judge that lohan was settling in at morningside recovery and argued that the actress should be allowed to stay until a judge approves her placement .
" my client is ensconced in the bosom of that facility right now , " heller argued after a prosecutor objected to lohan " s choice of facilities .
" she " s in rehab right now .
nothing bad is going to happen . " .
celebrity website tmz reported lohan was shopping at an electronics store while her attorney was in court and that she never entered morningside .
superior court judge james r . dabney agreed in the hearing that lohan should remain at morningside , although the actress " whereabouts were unknown .
talking to people magazine , jack ketsoyan , tara reid 's representative confirms the perennial party girl , has herself checked into promises treatment centre .
asking to respect her and her family 's privacy , ketsoyan did not reveal what the star of " american pie " , " van wilder " and " the big lebowski " was being treated for .
reid who launched mantra , her new fashion line , is being supported in her decision to enter rehab by all friends and family .
reid , 33 , with a reputation as one who drinks and parties long and hard , none more so when she was photographed on the red carpet with a breast exposed , completely unaware the strap of her dress had fallen off .
reid has also hosted 'taradise ' , the short-lived , half-hour show .
lindsay lohan checks into rehab at betty ford center .
fri . , may . 3 , 2013 11 : 45 am pdt .
early friday morning , around 1 : 30 a . m . , the 26 - year - old actress checked into betty ford center in rancho mirage , calif , .
the " american pie " actress has entered promises for undisclosed reasons .
the actress , 33 , reportedly headed to a malibu treatment facility on tuesday .
" tara reid has checked herself into promises treatment center .
we appreciate your respect to her and her family 's privacy at this time , " the actress 's rep jack ketsoyan tells the mag .
although the rep would n't reveal why she entered rehab , a source from the magazine said that it was her decision to get help .
reid became famous from her 1999 role in " american pie " and had her own reality show " taradise " in 2005 .
lindsay lohan checks into court - ordered rehab .
may 02 , 2013 .
lindsay lohan's lawyer says the actress checked into rehab on thursday , but the facility has not been officially sanctioned by the court that ordered her to serve 90 days of treatment .
attorney mark jay heller told la superior court judge james r . dabney that lohan , 26 , had checked into morningside recovery in newport beach , ca , according to the associated press .
oh , it 's been so long since we were on the rehab beat !
after telling people in october that she did n't " need to do any of that anymore , " " american pie " actress and former travel reporter tara reid checked into promises treatment center on friday for an unspecified problem .
promises is a celeb favorite favored by britney spears and lindsay lohan -- it 's also where mel gibson retired to after his 2006 accident and anti-semitic outburst .
not quite the christmas alternative we 're looking for ... .
get well soon , tara !
lindsay lohan rehires longtime lawyer shawn holley , heads to rehab .
published may 03 , 2013 .
it seems lindsay lohan has had enough of new york attorney mark jay heller .
the actress re - hired longtime attorney shawn holley to handle her case .
heller told a judge during a hearing thursday morning that lohan had checked in to the morningside recovery rehab facility , but the starlet left it after a few minutes .
the actress , however , has since checked in to a different rehab but will not face a probation violation for leaving another treatment facility after a few minutes , a prosecutor said friday .
lohan made it to the new facility late thursday , tmz reported .
white said he has received confirmation that lohan has checked in to a rehab facility and he is satisfied with her location .
he declined to say where lohan is receiving treatment , but reports soon surfaced that she was at the betty ford center in rancho mirage , calif .
"lindsay never checked into morningside but is back at betty ford .
the challenge now is to keep her there for the 90 days , " the source told us .
lohan has spent time at betty ford before .
she served another mandatory rehab sentence at the treatment center , although her stay there was not without drama .
it 's a party ... a rehab party !
it 's one of the most exclusive rehab centers , and tara reid is in .
hey , if you 're going to rehab anyway , might as well get your ego stroked , too .
actress tara reid entered well-known malibu rehab center promises treatment center , reportedly of her own desire .
the specific reason behind her checking in to the facility is currently unknown to the public .
reid may be best known for her romance with mtv 's " carson daly " and her roles in the " american pie " movies .
her former producer , chris weitz , will now be helming the next film installment of the " twilight " series .
lohan checks into betty ford , rehires attorney .
after she abruptly left a rehab facility in newport beach on thursday , lindsay lohan has checked into the betty ford center in rancho mirage .
the actress , 26 , checked in late thursday night , tmz reports , barely making the deadline and dodging an arrest warrant .
tmz also reports that lohan has re - hired attorney shawn holley .
lohan had checked into morningside recovery center thursday morning , but then left because " she was not happy with the place , " her father said .
report : red sox offer teixeira $200 million .
december 15th , 2008 , 7 : 35 am .
dan patrick reported on his show on am 570 that the boston red sox have made first baseman mark teixeira an eight - year , $200 million offer .
if so , that blows the reported eight - year , $160 million offers by the angels and the washington nationals out of the water .
patrick said monday morning : "if it's true they're offering $200 million to a career . 290 hitter , it'll be interesting to see what the angels do . " .
he then speculated the angels might turn their interest to manny ramirez .
the boston herald's michael silverman wrote in his monday column the red sox offer was expected to be in the range of $145 million to $175 million , possibly more .
he also noted that it is rare for boston to extend contracts to players that go to their 36th birthdays , with the exceptions of jason varitek's just - expired deal and mike lowell's contract .
teixeira will be 29 in april .
red sox to break bank for teixeira .
here's a prediction : by the time this is over , win or lose , the red sox effectively will have made mark teixeira the largest contract offer in the history of your storied franchise .
when the sox want something enough , they make sure they get it .
in the case of teixeira , rest assured that the sox want him , no matter what games are being played by club officials .
publicly and privately , the sox are saying nothing about their interest in teixeira and playing dumb every time his name comes up .
it's as sure a sign as any that they are preparing to go to extraordinary lengths .
what the red sox truly fear here is that the yankees can outbid them on teixeira , explaining why the sox have failed to confirm any interest in the player at all .
with the possible exception of the new york mets , who just exercised their contract option on first baseman carlos delgado , the yankees are the only team in baseball who could outbid the red sox for teixeira's services .
the yankees could do it in a big way , too , giving teixeira the kind of money that would put him in the clouds with alex rodriguez .
december 16 , 2008 .
herald : sox make offer to teixeira ( 8 years ? ) .
michael silverman reports that the red sox .
have made an offer [ for mark teixeira ] , the biggest and longest yet for this current ownership group .
the offer is believed to be for at least eight years . . .
teixeira is believed to be seeking an average annual value of more than the $21 million that left - hander cc sabathia is close to finalizing with the new york yankees for the next seven years , and a lot closer to the $27 . 5 million that third baseman alex rodriguez is guaranteed to make through 2017 with the yankees . . . .
there is every indication that the red sox view teixiera in the same "must - have" light as they did matsuzaka .
mlb's ian browne notes the sticky situation that would arise with only two infield positions for teixeira , mike lowell and kevin youkilis .
report : red sox make huge offer to teixeira .
on tuesday , 16 december 2008 13 : 45 .
the boston red sox have made the biggest offer in club history to mark teixeira .
the deal is said to be for 8 year and could be up to $180 million .
with the economy going down and ticket prices frozen you have to wonder how the red sox plan on making this kind of committment for the long term .
does this mean they will not be able to get that big free agent next year or the year after that ?
the farm system has been good but it can not replace eveything and the sox are going to need some front line starters in the next few years .
we just have to say "in theo we trust" with this one .
thursday , december 11 , 2008 .
prediction : red sox will nab teixeira .
espn is reporting that the nationals have offered mark teixeira an 8 - year , $160 million contract .
at the same time , si . com is reporting that , " the red sox are one of the most aggressive pursuers of teixeira , with several executives predicting he may wind up there . " .
the nationals " offer sets the bar for teixeira " s services .
will the sox have to offer more money and / or years , or does playing in boston , for a winning team , with very a passionate fan base mean more than playing near his hometown in maryland ?
naturally scott boras will try to draw this out as long as he can .
however , teixeira has said he would like a resolution by christmas .
the question is , now that the angels have lost out on cc sabathia , will they be all the more motivated to retain teixeira ?
could they swoop in with an overwhelming offer ?
the la times says the angels are reluctant to go past seven years for teixeira .
and though they still need more pitching , the yankees can never be discounted .
however , unfortunately for the angels , ken rosenthal of fox sports reports that two major - league sources said teixeira would prefer to be on the east coast for family reasons .
with that in mind , the nationals and orioles are pushing hard to bring teixeira back to the maryland area .
last night , rosenthal reported that , according to a major - league source , the red sox are making progress in their quest to sign teixeira .
" headway was being made earlier today , " the source said .
and a rival general manager whose plans could be affected by the red sox " s addition of teixeira also indicated that a deal was getting closer .
teixeira is seeking a 10 - year contract for at least $20 million per season .
the red sox preference would be to sign him to a deal between six and eight years .
the free - agent first baseman will be 29 on april 11 , coinciding with the opening week of the 2009 season .
by all indications , he " s a solid long - term investment .
eight years seems like a reasonable contract - length for a player of teixeira " s age and ability .
but if the sox are pushed to 10 years , they would likely deem it acceptable .
they will do whatever it takes to get it done .
teixeira is the big fish they " re determined not to let slip away .
having never hit fewer than 26 homers in his six major - league seasons , teixeira certainly seems like a better long - term investment than sabathia .
paying astronomical money to a guy who plays every day makes more sense than guaranteeing it to one who plays every five days , and who has weight issues .
questions about his long term durability will continue to dog sabathia for at least the next couple of years .
teixeira remains the hottest commodity on the free agent market because he " s been durable , injury - free , and highly productive .
over six full seasons , his career stat line looks like this : . 290 average , . 919 ops , 203 hr , 676 rbi .
last season , split between the braves and angels , teixeira hit . 308 , with 33 home runs and 121 rbi .
he " s proven himself in both leagues .
he is an all star , a two - time gold glove winner , and a two - time silver slugger winner .
without question , teixeira is a very solid hitter and a bona fide slugger ; he is one of just five players in major league history to hit at least 100 home runs in his first three seasons .
for these reasons , he has been described as the " apple of theo epstein " s eye . " .
this is why the red sox will not fail in their effort to bring home their single highest priority this offseason .
according to this l.a. times story ( which credits the team-owned flagship radio station ) , the angels have made an eight-year offer to free agent first baseman mark teixeira .
the dollar amount was unspecified , but bill shaikin , the fine reporter who wrote the story , says the team was believed to have offered at least $ 160 million .
this , obviously , changes the landscape of the teixeira sweepstakes , as the nationals ' best chance for landing him was to blow everyone else out of the water with their offer -- which , apparently , has not happened .
that 's not to say the nationals can not sweeten their offer , but team officials have indicated an unwillingness to get into a bidding war with higher-revenue teams .
of course , we still have yet to hear from the red sox -- or even the yankees , as i hypothesized in today 's print edition .
in any case , it appears this thing is far from over .
red sox extend offer to teixeira .
boston reportedly looks to ink free - agent slugger for eight years .
12 / 16 / 08 1 : 30 am est .
though the red sox continue to operate in intriguing secrecy when it comes to their pursuit of free - agent slugger mark teixeira , it appears an offer has been transmitted from the offices of 4 yawkey way in boston to the corporation of power agent scott boras in southern california .
the boston herald reported in its tuesday editions that the red sox have extended an offer for teixeira , believed to be the longest and richest in the seven - year history of the ownership group led by john w . henry .
though the newspaper doesn't cite its source , it stated that the offer is "believed to be for at least eight years . " .
the red sox have a club policy of not commenting on their negotiating stance with any free agents .
last week at the winter meetings , the washington nationals made teixeira an eight - year , $160 million offer .
angels general manager tony reagins recently confirmed that his club had also made an eight - year offer .
the orioles , according to reports , have offered teixeira a seven - year deal worth between $140 million and $150 million .
as for the red sox , gm theo epstein hasn't so much as uttered teixeira's name in any interviews with media members this offseason .
that has always been the way epstein conducts his business , and it's why you won't hear any public comments from the red sox regarding teixeira until he either signs with boston or goes somewhere else .
"we're being aggressive , really aggressive on players that we like , " epstein said last week .
the two biggest investments the red sox have made under current ownership ?
a $103 . 1 million sum - - including the $51 . 1 million posting fee - - to daisuke matsuzaka over six seasons and a five - year , $70 million contract for j . d . drew .
though breaking the bank in free agency isn't typically the way the red sox go about their hot stove business , they feel that teixeira - - who will turn 29 in april - - could be the centerpiece of their lineup for the better part of a decade .
the switch - hitter does everything the red sox like , from getting on base to hitting for power to playing terrific defense at first base .
epstein was asked at the winter meetings if the red sox could sign a marquee free agent this winter .
"i think there's a chance of it , " he said .
"there's definitely a chance that we don't .
i can't tell you which [ answer ] , eight , 10 , 12 years from now would have been better for the organization .
but players that we like and think can help us , we're going to try to sign to numbers that we think are reasonable and help us going forward and help us with our foundation .
if we get them , great .
if we don't , then we'll move on . " .
the yankees , boston's top rival , have already made a loud statement this winter , agreeing to terms with starters cc sabathia and a . j . burnett .
though epstein never likes to act as if he is counteracting the yankees , teixeira would clearly give boston's lineup a more dynamic look .
there have been conflicting reports as to whether the yankees have interest in teixeira .
when boras spoke at the winter meetings , he didn't sound as if he was in any rush to close the teixeira deal .
back in november , while attending a georgia tech football game , teixeira told espn that he'd like to sign by christmas .
if the red sox are successful in landing teixeira , it will create a somewhat sticky situation .
the red sox have kevin youkilis at first base and mike lowell at third .
to open a spot for teixeira , the red sox might have to trade lowell and move youkilis across the diamond .
however , lowell , coming off right hip surgery , is likely to have to prove his health in spring training if he is to be dealt .
last winter the red sox re - signed lowell , the most valuable player of the 2007 world series , to a three - year , $37 . 5 million contract .
the red sox control youkilis contractually for the next two years , so it's highly doubtful he would be moved .
youkilis finished third in the american league most valuable player voting in november .
david ortiz , boston's star designated hitter , is a 10 - 5 man ( 10 years in the majors , five with the same team ) , meaning he could veto any trade .
8 : 24am .
according to michael silverman of the boston herald , the red sox made an offer to mark teixeira .
silverman believes it to be for eight years .
tex is believed to be seeking more than $21mm per year , closer to alex rodriguez's $27 . 5mm per year .
the angels are reportedly at eight years and at least $160mm , the orioles around seven years , $140 - 150mm , and the nationals at eight years , $160mm .
red sox - teixeira rumor .
december 15 , 2008 at 1 : 00pm cst .
2 : 16pm : take it with a grain of salt , but we have a report of a report that the red sox offered mark teixeira an eight - year , $200mm deal .
earl bloom of the orange county register heard dan patrick say it on his radio show .
it'd be best to treat the report with skepticism until it's confirmed by another source .
angels general manager tony reagins confirmed to the los angeles times that he has made an eight-year offer to free agent first baseman mark teixeira .
regains did n't reveal the dollar amounts , but the newspaper speculates the deal is worth at least $ 160 million .
teixeira is considered the top offensive player available on the free agent market , and the orioles ( seven years , $ 140- $ 150 million ) and nationals ( eight years , $ 160 million ) reportedly have made sizeable offers as well .
the red sox , considered to be the front-runner for teixeira , also have put in a bid , though monetary details have been kept quiet .
there has been talk of the yankees being in the teixeira sweepstakes as well .
teixeira , 28 , has hit at least 30 homers and driven in at least 105 runs in each of the past five seasons .
after being acquired from the braves before the trading deadline this past season , teixeira hit .358 with 13 homers and 43 rbis in 54 games with the angels .
boston red sox majority owner john w . henry , ceo larry lucchino and general manager theo epstein flew to texas on thursday night to meet with free agent mark teixeira and his agent , scott boras , in an effort to convince the switch - hitting first baseman to sign with boston .
the red sox have made an eight - year offer to teixeira in excess of $160 million , but sources close to the negotiations say it is less than the $184 million reported by boston wcvb sportscaster mike lynch , who first reported that the meeting would take place .
the meeting will not result in a " take it or leave it " scenario by the red sox , a source said .
however , henry said earlier this week that the red sox will not satisfy boras " request for a 10 - year deal , and it appears highly unlikely that boston will go beyond eight years .
the parties are meeting at an undisclosed location in texas , the red sox having requested the face - to - face meeting with the player so he can hear directly from them why they believe he should spend the next eight years in boston .
the los angeles angels , baltimore orioles and washington nationals also have made offers to teixeira , but to date none of those offers are believed to be for more than eight years .
yankees general manager brian cashman also met with teixeira earlier this month , but that was before the yankees committed more than $240 million to sign pitchers cc sabathia and a . j . burnett , so it appears unlikely they would make a grab for teixeira as well .
boras also represents free - agent catcher jason varitek , the red sox captain who declined an offer of salary arbitration from the team .
boston has not made another offer to varitek since , though the sides continue to talk .
a third boras client , free - agent pitcher derek lowe , also is of interest to the red sox , but they have not made him an offer and are expected to do so only if he drops his price .
lowe is believed to be seeking a five - year deal in the $75 million range .
teixeira , who turns 29 on april 11 , has averaged more than 30 home runs and 100 rbis in his six big - league seasons , while posting a . 919 ops and playing gold glove - caliber defense .
the red sox envision him as a middle - of - the - lineup presence to offset last july " s departure of manny ramirez to the dodgers .
if teixeira signs with the red sox , they would move all - star kevin youkilis from first to third base while looking to trade third baseman mike lowell , the 2007 world series mvp .
the los angeles angels of anaheim offered free-agent first baseman mark teixeira an eight-year contract at the winter meetings in las vegas .
owner arte moreno met with scott boras , teixeira 's agent , and presented him with the offer , which is believed to be worth at least $ 160 million and possibly as much as $ 180 million over the life of the contract .
" it 's something they can consider - or should consider , " angels general manager tony reagins told mlb.com on friday .
" they have the right . " .
other teams in the battle for teixeira are the baltimore orioles ( seven years , $ 140-150 million ) , washington nationals ( eight years , $ 160 million ) and boston red sox .
the new york yankees also have expressed interest .
teixeira , 28 , was acquired by the angels in a july 29 deal with the atlanta braves last season and hit 13 home runs and 43 rbis in 54 games .
overall , he finished the season with a .308 average , 33 homers and 121 rbi .
it marked the fifth straight 30-homer , 100-rbi season for teixeira .
he batted .467 with seven hits and four walks in the american league division series as the angels fell to the red sox in four games .
nationals' eight - year offer to teixeira reportedly bumped as high as $184m .
december 23 , 2008 .
for weeks now , mark teixeira has contemplated his next home - - a waiting game that has slowly shortened the list of teams in pursuit of his services .
but evidently , the waiting hasn't caused teixeira's price tag to drop even the slightest .
one report posted online last night by masn sports' roch kubatko suggested that the washington nationals have upgraded their initial offer to teixeira - - eight years , $160 million - - to somewhere between $178 million and $184 million over the same timeframe .
no member of the team's front office would add comment yesterday on the current offer or indicate whether the team had sweetened the deal .
by way of declining to offer the numbers of washington's proposal to teixeira , team president stan kasten said , "there are bargains , but luxury goods are still not being discounted . " .
regardless of the money , the team's front office still knows it would take a mild upset for the 28 - year - old to settle on a deal with washington .
on sunday night , the los angeles angels withdrew their contract offer to teixeira , believing he had no sincere interest in playing for the organization with which he ended the 2008 season .
the boston red sox and baltimore orioles have offers on the table , and though they have yet to make a concrete offer the new york yankees might also contemplate a last - minute bid .
various news reports late last week pegged the boston offer to be as high as $184 million over eight years , though subsequent rumors suggested that the numbers are a little lower - - perhaps between $165 million and $180 million .
the orioles have the weakest offer of the bunch - - a proposal reportedly worth between $140 million and $150 million over seven years .
so far , no team involved has offered a contract longer than eight years .
teixeira's agent , scott boras , entered the free agency process hoping his client could attract a 10 - year deal .
either way , teixeira will end up with one of the biggest paydays in baseball history , almost certainly exceeding the $161 million ( over seven years ) that fellow free agent cc sabathia received from the yankees earlier this offseason .
the angels have offered an eight-year contract to mark teixeira , general manager tony reagins said friday night .
the contract would be the longest and richest in club history .
the value could almost double the previous club record , the $ 90 million guaranteed last year to torii hunter .
reagins declined to provide the value of teixeira 's offer .
the angels are believed to have offered at least $ 160 million , matching or exceeding the highest offer so far reported for teixeira .
owner arte moreno flew from his arizona home to las vegas on tuesday and met personally with scott boras , the agent for teixeira .
angels spokesman tim mead said he believed moreno presented the offer to boras at that time .
mead also said he did not know when the offer might expire .
none of the other teams in the teixeira sweepstakes -- the boston red sox , baltimore orioles and washington nationals -- has been reported to have offered more than eight years .
the nationals reportedly have bid $ 160 million over eight years , the orioles between $ 140 million and $ 150 million over seven years .
the details of the boston bid have not been reported .
the angels had exclusive negotiating rights with teixeira for the first 15 days after the world series , but they declined to make an offer during that time and said they would do so at an appropriate time .
boras has had one month since then to solicit bids from other teams , enabling him to let moreno know how the market had developed and enabling moreno to make his first -- and perhaps only -- offer without boras shopping that offer to other teams .
the angels have not wavered from treating teixeira as their top priority , even as other coveted options have evaporated .
the angels negotiated with pitcher cc sabathia , a favorite among their scouts , but they chose not to make an offer after deciding they would not match the new york yankees ' initial $ 140-million bid .
sabathia agreed to a seven-year , $ 161-million deal with the yankees late tuesday night , hours after moreno met with boras .
on friday , outfielder raul ibanez signed a three-year , $ 31.5-million contract with the philadelphia phillies .
the angels had considered signing ibanez if they lost out on teixeira , with ibanez playing left field and kendry morales replacing teixeira at first base .
the angels ' eight-year offer first was reported friday night on the team-owned radio station , am 830 .
sources : sox may not be out of teixeira chase .
team execs meet with player's agent .
updated 3 : 09 am est dec 19 , 2008 .
despite saying they have been outbid for free agent first baseman mark teixeira , the red sox do not believe they are completely out of the chase , sportscenter 5 has learned .
sources have also told sportscenter 5's mike lynch more about the negotiations that took place thursday at teixeira's texas home .
lynch reported the red sox team of owner john henry , coo larry lucchino and general manager theo epstein offered teixeira , 28 , an eight - year deal worth $184 million or $23 million per season .
it was then that agent scott boras countered by asking for an eight - year contract worth $200 million , sources said .
lynch reported that henry became infuriated at that point , balking at the massive sum .
in an e - mail to media members thursday night , henry said , "we met with mr . teixeira and were very much impressed with him .
after hearing about his other offers , however , it seems clear that we are not going to be a factor . " .
henry's reference to the "other offers" leaves open the possibility that he is calling boras' bluff , who has been known to inflate the value of offers and the number of suitors pursuing his client , lynch reported .
boras represented former red sox center fielder johnny damon , who signed with the new york yankees in 2005 after the boston brass apparently refused to believe that the offer from their archrivals was real .
lynch also learned that one of teixeira's hometown teams , the washington nationals , has made a huge offer .
teixeira is a maryland native .
teixeira was traded from atlanta to los angeles in july .
he hit . 308 with 33 homers and 121 rbis last season , including . 358 with 13 homers and 43 rbis in 54 games with the angels .
the angeles said last week they made an eight - year offer .
henry had expressed concern about a contract of eight years or more .
"we all have limits , " he wrote the ap on wednesday .
"eight years is a very long time in baseball and everywhere else . " .
he also said the amount the team is willing to spend on a free agent "depends on both" the economy and the player being sought .
super-agent scott boras said leaving the winter meetings that it was going to take an eight-year deal to get the services of slugging first-baseman mark teixeira .
the angels apparently are good with that .
los angeles general manager tony reagins has sounded like a broken record saying that resigning teixeira was his top priority , and backed that up now with an eight-year offer .
no dollar figures have been released with the offer , but the seven-year offers for teixeira were in the $ 140 million to $ 160 million range and the new offer is expected to be at the top of that range .
if accepted , this would certainly be the largest contract in the angels history , dwarfing the four-year , $ 90 million deal that torii hunter got just last summer .
but if he keeps mashing like he did after the trade , teixeira could be worth the bank .
in 54 games with the angeles he hit .358 with 13 home runs and 43 rbis , and had a slugging percentage of .632 .
the two-time gold glove winner also helped solidify the angeles infield .
after the winter meetings , the conventional wisdom was that the red sox were the frontrunners for teixeira 's services , even though they met privately and their offer was never made public ( maybe that 's why people thought they were the leaders ) .
however , no other offer ( including from the nationals and oriels trying to bring teixeira back to his native maryland ) was thought to be more than seven years .
the race for teixeira seems to be in the final furlong .
but then again , boras is a patient man , especially if he thinks more money could be around the corner .
the los angeles angels made an eight-year offer to first baseman mark teixeira during winter meetings in las vegas .
team spokesman tim mead confirmed sunday the angels have withdrawn their offer and are " out of the mark teixeira derby . " .
the team made its offer , reportedly worth about us $ 160 million , during the winter meetings in las vegas earlier this month .
the red sox said last week that they " are not going to be a factor " in signing the 28-year-old maryland native .
washington and baltimore have expressed interest in teixeira .
the angels obtained teixeira from the atlanta braves in late july .
playing in a combined 157 games with the angels and braves , teixeira had 33 homers and 121 rbis along with a career-best .308 average .
teixeira not headed to boston .
can you believe it ?
i can " t .
yet it " s coming from up top .
red sox owner john henry has said , in so many words , that his team will not sign mark teixeira .
his exact words .
" we met with mr . teixeira and were very much impressed with him .
after hearing about his other offers , however , it seems clear that we are not going to be a factor . " .
you can follow the entire saga on mlb trade rumors .
no one expected this , at least not this soon .
the red sox , the team so many considered the frontrunners for teixeira , will , in the words of the owner himself , not be factors .
it appears , from henry " s words , the price tag is a bit too high .
reports of the red sox offer varied , though wcvb - tv claims it was eight years and $184 million , or a $23 million average annual value .
boston could obviously jump back into the picture , but for now it appears they " ll let the first baseman sign elsewhere .
clearly , i expect a flurry of " now the yankees have to get him " comments .
think about this , though .
there " s at least one offer out there better than eight years and $184 million .
should the yankees go higher than $25 million a season for teixeira ?
so as things turn out , apparently there are teams in major league baseball not named the new york yankees who are willing to spend money this winter .
after letting francisco rodriguez leave to join the new york mets and failing to sign cc sabathia , the angels find themselves with some money laying around , and they 've decided to spend it on mark teixeira .
according to a report in the los angeles times , the angels have made an offer to the free agent first baseman that would be the biggest contract in the history of the franchise , surpassing the $ 90 million deal they gave to torii hunter last season .
while the numbers are n't confirmed , the deal is believed to be an offer of eight years and around $ 160 million .
owner arte moreno flew from his arizona home to las vegas on tuesday and met personally with scott boras , the agent for teixeira .
angels spokesman tim mead said he believed moreno presented the offer to boras at that time .
mead also said he did not know when the offer might expire .
the angels , of course , are one of four teams that are known to be pursuing teixeira .
the nationals offered him the same deal as the angels , the orioles have made an offer between $ 140 and $ 150 million over seven years , and nobody knows for sure what the red sox have offered .
i 'm pretty sure the red sox offer will be the only one the angels have to compete with because even though the nationals and orioles are close to teixeira 's home , neither have any realistic expectation of competing for a world series next season , with or without teixeira .
in other news , somewhere manny ramirez just punched something .
with last night 's news from los angeles angels gm tony reagins that the team has made an eight-year contract offer ( dollars undisclosed ) to 1b mark teixeira , the trade rumor being reported , most recently by john perrotto at baseball prospectus , about the angels going after san diego padres ' ace is likely caput .
perrotto 's iteration had aaa rhp nick adenhart and aaa ss brandon wood heading a package that would lead to peavy topping the angels ' rotation .
while the angels are being lumped in with the big spenders of baseball ( read : new york yankees and boston red sox ) , there is little to indicate the angels ' off-season plans included dropping $ 20mm per on teixeira and another $ 15 + mm on a starting pitcher .
as a back-up plan to a failure to land teixeira , yes .
however , an interesting scenario develops if teixeira spurs the west coast in favor of working closer to home for the washington nationals or baltimore orioles .
in this scenario , the angels would have the luxury of dealing peavy to the padres for a wood/adenhart/reggie willits/reliever package , and reviving its offense with the signings of non-tender 3b/2b ty wigginton and jonny gomes .
first base : boston in good spot for teixeira .
december 22nd , 2008 8 : 55 am .
the angels have withdrawn their offer to free - agent 1b mark teixeira , reports foxsports . com and yahoo ! sports .
in fact , angels gm tony reagins later confirmed the report to the los angeles times , adding that he is no longer pursuing teixeira .
similarly , buster olney of espn . com believes the nationals do not expect to sign teixeira , despite making a eight - year offer .
meanwhile , according to the newsday , teixeira still has an eight - year offer on the table from the red sox , worth roughly $22 million per season .
... ok , so , the sox have the high offer , the angels are out , the nationals lack confidence , and the o " s have reportedly only offered seven years ... which would suggest the red sox are in very , very good position to land teixeira ... unless , of course , a new team can be wrangled in to the mix ... .
in an earlier report , newsday reported that teixeira " s agent , scott boras , is working to get the yankees involved again .
olney believes brian cashman made teixeira an offer earlier in the off - season , but has since pulled it back .
... in case you " re wondering , six articles and the mets are not mentioned once as ever having interest in teixeira ... .
voting for mps to majlis ( parliament ) began in turkmenistan on dec.14 .
a total of 288 candidates run for 125 parliamentary seats , with 37 of the candidates registered in the capital city of turkmenistan - ashgabat , 46 in akhal region , 25 in balkan region , 63 in dashoguz region , 56 in lebap region , and 61 in mary region .
of the 288 candidates , 286 have higher education , 202 are under 45 years old , and 56 are women .
turkmenistan has 27 polling stations abroad attached to the country 's diplomatic missions .
elections take place by the voting of turkmenistan citizens on the basis of a universal , equal and direct suffrage with secret ballot and alternative basis .
the term of office of mps is five years .
for the first time foreign observers and experts , representatives from european states and international organizations including un , osce , and cis executive committee monitor elections in turkmenistan .
voters in turkmenistan began to cast their ballots at 8 : 00 am local time ( 0300 gmt ) on sunday in the country 's fourth parliamentary election , said reports from ashgabat , turkmenistan 's capital .
over 2.5 million turkmens are eligible to vote at more than 2,000 booths in the country , while there are 27 overseas booths .
voting will close at 6 : 00 p.m. local time ( 1300 gmt ) sunday .
in accordance with the country 's election law , there are a total of 125 contituencies in the current election and single winners will be elected in each of them for a term of five years .
a total of 288 candidates are vying for the 125 seats in the legislature .
the 4th parliamentary election of turkmenistan ended sunday evening as scheduled , said reports from ashgabat , turkmenistan 's capital .
more than 2,000 booths in 125 constituencies in the country were closed at 6:00 p.m. local time ( 1300 gmt ) .
the central election and referendum commission declared the election valid .
official election results will be announced within 10 days .
some 2.44 million people , accounting for some 88.41 percent of the country 's eligible voters , cast their ballots as of 4:00 p.m. local time ( 1100 gmt ) .
under turkmen laws , parliamentary elections can only be declared valid with a turnout more than 50 percent of eligible voters .
the election attracted wide attention as it was held amid constitutional and justice reforms advocated by president kurbanguly berdymukhamedov .
about 40 observers from the united nations , the organization for security and cooperation in europe and the commonwealth of independent states oversaw the election .
this was the first the government allowed international observers to supervise the elections in turkmenistan .
berdymukhamedov said earlier that the parliamentary elections in turkmenistan would show the international community that the country 's democratization process is irreversible with the adoption of a new constitution .
parliamentary elections in turkmenistan to be held on two - party basis .
26 september 2013 , 10 : 00 ( gmt+05 : 00 ) .
parliamentary elections in turkmenistan which are planned for december 15 , 2013 , will be held on a two - party basis , a message from the central commission for elections and referenda of turkmenistan said .
'representatives of the two political parties will compete for victory in the parliamentary elections .
this will give a powerful impetus to the pre - election campaign and allow the electorate to nominate the most worthy representatives for the country's legislative body' , the message said .
the start of the campaign for this election will be announced on october 5 , 2013 , in turkmenistan .
nomination of candidates for the national parliament will take place from october 16 to november 14 .
registration will run from october 26 to november 20 .
at a meeting of the central election commission it was decided to hold training seminars for representatives of political parties , public organisations and associations , electoral commissions and national observers .
it is expected the elections will be monitored by national observers and invited international experts and witnesses from many foreign countries and major international organisations and in the first instance , the european union , the cis and the osce .
the mps term of office is five years .
the main current staff was elected in december 2008 .
last year a law 'on political parties' was adopted in turkmenistan .
on this basis , a party of turkmenistan industrialists and entrepreneurs was established in august 2012 in ashgabat with the participation of 300 delegates representing enterprise structures from all regions of the country .
up till then , the only political organisation , namely the democratic party , headed by president gurbanguly berdimuhamedov was registered in the country .
in august 2013 the turkmen leader adopted a decision to remove the duties of the chairman of this political structure from himself .
turkmenistan voted sunday in a parliamentary election meant to show that the energy-rich central asian nation was shedding its autocratic past , but western observers said nothing had changed .
authorities said turnout reached 93.87 percent in the election for 288 candidates , all of whom support the policies of president gurbanguly berdymukhamedov in the ex-soviet republic .
voting stations were festooned with turkmen flags and pictures of berdymukhamedov , the successor of eccentric dictator saparmurat niyazov , who ruled turkmenistan for two decades until his death in 2006 .
over 2.5 million people were eligible to vote in the election , held under the framework of a new constitution approved in september and intended to increase parliament 's powers and raise the number of seats from 65 to 125 .
" i attach hopes for the better to these elections , especially for our children , " valentina redzhepova , an official at one of ashgabat 's voting precincts , told afp .
" we are waiting for borders to open even further so more guests can come to us and so we can visit them . " .
voters , however , appeared reluctant to criticise the government .
in gyami , a village outside the turkmen capital , 25-year-old guzel said she had come to the local polling station to vote and watch her daughter perform in a children 's folk-dance troupe .
" i voted for our fellow village resident .
he is an experienced person and knows village life well , " she said .
pensioner bayram-aga , a voter in ashgabat , said .
" i remember the elections from the soviet days. ... .
people were very active then , it was like a festival .
now it 's much quieter . " .
western observers say niyazov still casts a shadow , despite promises of openness by berdymukhamedov and some moves to dismantle the late dictator 's bizarre personality cult .
niyazov 's gold statue still towers over the desert nation 's capital , rotating to face the sun .
" the facade has changed but the foundations remain the same , " said a western diplomat , who requested anonymity .
" power rests entirely with the president .
his photo appears every day on the front of the papers .
he strictly controls the economy and the whole of the media , " the diplomat added .
new york-based human rights watch said in an assessment last month that turkmenistan had made " some progress " but " remains ... one of the most repressive and authoritarian states in the world . " .
the elections are unlikely to get a clean bill of health from the west , not least as all candidates have stressed support for the president while campaigning .
the organization for security and cooperation in europe sent eight experts to monitor the poll and draw up an " internal report . " .
the group 's spokesman , jens hagen eschenbecher , told afp that the experts would not be making any public statements on their conclusions .
ninety percent of the 288 candidates come from the democratic party set up by niyazov in place of the communist party , with the other 10 percent coming from so-called " initiative groups " that have little clout .
all candidates are funded by the state , with a ban on other funding .
western journalists have been refused permission to cover the vote .
foreign election observers will mainly come from the commonwealth of independent states , a post-soviet group with little credibility .
with its enormous natural gas reserves , turkmenistan is central to european efforts to diversify gas supplies away from russia .
berdymukhamedov has voiced support for giving the west more access to turkmen gas .
27 / 09 / 2013 - turkmenistan to hold first - ever parliamentary elections on a two - party basis .
published on friday , 27 september 2013 .
parliamentary elections in turkmenistan that are scheduled for december 15 of this year will be held on a two - party basis , for the first time in the country " s history , according to the central elections commission of turkmenistan .
voters in turkmenistan cast ballots sunday in a parliamentary election hailed by the government as an exercise in democracy but dismissed by critics as a sham .
the election of a 125-seat national legislature is the first parliamentary vote in the natural-gas rich central asian nation since the death of longtime autocrat saparmurat niyazov two years ago .
his successor , gurbanguli berdymukhamedov , says the election is a key step in the development of democracy .
but while the seats are contested , only one political party is legally registered in turkmenistan , and its opponents have no foothold in politics .
the u.s. and europe are courting turkmenistan as they seek to diversify energy sources and were watching the vote for signs of change .
turkmen election to have 2 parties for 1st time .
2013 - 09 - 26 .
for the first time in post - soviet turkmenistan's history , its parliamentary elections will have two parties , itar - tass reported september 26 , citing the country's central election and referendum commission ( tskvpr ) .
besides the ruling democratic party ( former communist party ) , the party of industrialists and entrepreneurs ( pppt ) -- founded in 2012 -- will be seeking seats in the december 15 election .
parliament has 125 seats .
the campaign starts october 5 , according to tskvpr .
presently , parliament has one pppt member , who won a vacated seat in akhal oblast in june .
the people of turkmenistan have voted in the first parliamentary election held after the adoption of a new constitution earlier this year .
the central election commission said that turnout was almost 90 % .
it was the first poll to be held under president kurbanguly berdymukhamedov , who has promised to end the central asian nation 's international isolation .
the authorities say the vote is an important democratic step , but critics question the validity of the process .
almost all of the 288 candidates running for 125 seats in the parliament came either from turkmenistan 's sole political party , the democratic party , or state-affiliated organisations .
all candidates were funded by the state as alternative funding was banned .
ethnic minorities , such as the sizeable uzbek community , were not permitted to nominate their own candidates .
international observers .
there was no shortage of voters in the parliamentary elections in turkmenistan , the former soviet republic which borders the caspian sea .
according to the country 's central election commission the turnout was extremely high .
almost all of the 2.5 million people eligible cast their votes , reports said .
state media proudly reported that turkmen citizens living abroad were able to vote for the first time at turkmen embassies and consulates .
officials are keen to demonstrate that these elections are part of turkmenistan 's process of democratisation .
international observers from the organisation for security and co-operation in europe were invited to monitor the poll .
they are not expected to give any formal assessment of the election proceedings .
previously , turkmenistan had a people 's council whose 2,507 members had to be approved by the country 's late ruler , saparmurat niyazov , who died in 2006 after 21 years in power .
the new leader , mr berdymukhamedov , a former dentist , has introduced a number of measures to modernise the gas-rich nation , after years of isolation under his predecessor .
abolishing the people 's council and reinstating the country 's parliament was one of them .
however the country remains largely closed to the outside world .
electoral districts established in turkmenistan due to parliamentary elections .
4 october 2013 , 18 : 07 ( gmt+05 : 00 ) .
regarding the election of deputies of the turkmen mejlis ( parliament ) , which is scheduled for december 15 , 2013 , a decision was taken on establishment of electoral districts , the resolution of the central election commission of turkmenistan released on friday said .
in accordance with article 60 of the turkmen constitution for the orderly conduct of the elections in the country 125 electoral districts will be established , including those in ashgabat city - 15 , akhal province - 15 , balkan province - 10 , dashoguz province - 27 , lebap province - 28 , mary province - 30 .
it is expected that the start of the campaign for this election will be announced on october 5 , 2013 , in turkmenistan .
nomination of candidates for the national parliament will take place from october 16 to november 14 .
registration will run from october 26 to november 20 .
it is expected the elections will be monitored by national observers and invited international experts and witnesses from many foreign countries and major international organisations and in the first instance , the european union , the cis and the osce .
the mps term of office is five years .
the main current staff was elected in december 2008 .
according to the turkmen constitution , the parliament passes laws , makes changes and additions to the constitution of turkmenistan ; examines the state budget approval , addresses questions on holding referendums and announces presidential and parliamentary elections .
it also considers issues the appointment and dismissal of the chief of the supreme court , attorney general , interior minister and minister of justice and ratifies and terminates international treaties , addresses issues on changes of state borders and the administrative - territorial division of turkmenistan .
voters in reclusive turkmenistan elect a parliament sunday in balloting heralded by authorities in the natural gas-rich nation as a key step toward democratic standards but dismissed by critics as a sham .
the election comes two years after the death of idiosyncratic dictator saparmurat niyazov , which kindled hopes here and in the west that the central asian country would gradually roll back its oppressive political regime and introduce greater freedoms .
niyazov 's successor , president gurbanguli berdymukhamedov , has revoked some of his more draconian decrees and vowed to pursue political reform .
but most of the parliamentary candidates are from the only permitted political party , and exiled opposition activists say the president has failed to live up to his promises .
" beyond all the pompous declarations , there will be no real change , " tadzhigul begmedova , director of the turkmenistan helsinki foundation for human rights , said by telephone from varna , bulgaria .
" the hopes many people had that a new president would open up turkmen society have been shattered . " .
on the surface , turkmenistan 's political landscape is changing .
in september , the rubber-stamp people 's council - a 2,507-member assembly of presidential appointees , town elders and others - voted to abolish itself and cede most of its powers to an expanded parliament .
but out of the 288 candidates running for the 125 seats sunday , more than half are members of the pro-presidential democratic party of turkmenistan - a political force created out of the ashes of the soviet-era turkmen communist party .
non-party candidates have been drawn from state-controlled women 's and veterans ' organizations , trade unions and a youth group .
the only non-party candidate in the capital , ashgabat , avidly supports berdymukhamedov - undermining official claims the polls will offer a wide choice .
" i will devote all my strengths to the honest and righteous support of our esteemed president 's domestic and foreign policy , " the candidate , regional bureaucrat resulberdy mammedov , said in a campaign statement .
niyazov isolated turkmenistan from the international community and forged a pervasive personality cult .
he called himself turkmenbashi , or father of all turkmens , renamed months after himself and his mother , and made his self-penned spiritual tome mandatory reading for students and state employees .
with berdymukhamedov decreasing the country 's isolation , government opponents claim the election is aimed to appease western countries that are eager to win access to its vast natural-gas reserves but wary of its record on democracy and human rights .
the u.s. and european union are seeking to lessen russia 's control over exports of turkmen gas .
" this whole spectacle has been arranged for the international community , to show that turkmenistan is following the path of democratization , " said begmedova .
while officials have extolled the vote as an exercise in democracy , there has been little campaigning and little coverage on state-run television , in contrast with the february 2007 presidential election that confirmed berdymukhamedov 's role as head of state .
" there are very few billboards around the city .
with just four days to go before the election , i still do n't know who i 'm supposed to vote for , " said maral , 45 , an ashgabat resident who declined to give her surname for fear of official intimidation .
un consults turkmenistan on electoral processes .
2 october 2013 , 15 : 39 ( gmt+05 : 00 ) .
on october 1 - 2 ashgabat hosts a seminar organised with the assistance of the united nations development programme on 'enhancing the electoral system and processes in turkmenistan' , a statement of the event organisers said on wednesday .
the project is a part of a joint project with the central commission for elections and referenda ( cec ) in turkmenistan .
'the objectives of this meeting are to provide expert support to professionals and members of the electoral commission on issues of administration and technical procedures of the electoral process , as well as advice in preparing a plan to monitor the elections' , the information said .
after the seminar , un consultants will submit the country's cec guidelines for the use of the international standard of election observation in accordance with national legislation .
turkeminstan's cec plans to hold elections on december 15 2013 .
it is expected that the elections will be observed by local observers and invited international experts and observers from many foreign countries and major international organisations and in the first instance , the european union , cis and osce .
the term of office of turkmen mps is five years .
the current senior composition was elected in december 2008 .
turkmens go to the polls sunday in a parliamentary election the west sees as a test of the central asian nation 's commitment to bring about change after decades of isolation .
critics say the poll is a sham and designed to put a gloss of democracy on a government that tolerates no dissent .
all the candidates in sunday 's election represent either the ruling democratic party of turkmenistan , the only party registered in turkmenistan , or a handful of state-approved independents .
europe will be watching the vote closely as it tries to gauge how much business it can do with the gas-rich nation it sees as key to its energy diversification .
the parliament election is over in turkmenistan .
turkmenistan 's voters are going to the polls in parliamentary elections portrayed by the government as a step towards democracy in the gas-rich central asian nation .
but critics say that sunday 's vote is a sham with all the candidates either representing the ruling democratic party , the only registered party , or a handful of state-approved independents .
" beyond all the pompous declarations , there will be no real change , " tadzhigul begmedova , director of the turkmenistan helsinki foundation for human rights , said from bulgaria .
" the hopes many people had that a new president would open up turkmen society have been shattered . " .
gurbanguli berdymukhamedov became president in 2006 after the death of saparmurat niyazov , who forged a personality cult that saw months of the year renamed after himself and his mother , and a spiritual guide he authored become mandatory for students and government workers .
'pluralism and openess ' .
berdymukhamedov rolled back some of the decrees which had celebrated the previous leader and vowed to increase democracy and foreign investment .
" it does not matter who gets elected .
the president has the final say " .
" this campaign stands out for its pluralism , openness and the activeness of the citizens , " an election official told the afp news agency , requesting anonymity .
in september , the people 's council , a 2,507-member assembly of presidential appointees , town elders and others , voted to abolish itself and cede most of its powers to an expanded parliament .
but more than half of the 288 candidates running for the parliament 's 125 seats on sunday are from the democratic party , while the others have been drawn from state-controlled women 's and veterans ' organisations , trade unions and a youth group .
all of them receive state funding for the campaign as no other form of political funding is allowed under turkmenistan 's laws .
" it does not matter who gets elected .
the president has the final say , " osman-aga , who herds camels in a remote desert area , told the reuters news agency .
contest 'impossible ' .
the organisation for security and co-operation in europe has not sent only three observers to monitor the vote , saying a genuine contest was impossible .
human rights watch said in a report last month .
" the conditions are not in place to hold a free and fair election that would be a meaningful reflection of the will of the people . " .
the presence of foreign media also is limited as many journalists were unable to get permission to report there .
the run-up to the election in the former soviet state has seen little campaigning and garnered little coverage on state-run television .
" there are very few billboards around the city ... .
i still do n't know who i 'm supposed to vote for , " maral , a resident of ashgabat who declined to give her surname for fear of official intimidation , told the associated press news agency .
the government of turkmenistan said 90 per cent of eligible voters had participated in parliamentary elections sunday , despite boycotts from opposition groups .
the elections , the first since the country adopted a new constitution earlier this year , had 2.5 million eligible voters picking between 288 candidates for 125 seats in the revived parliament .
in another first , the government allowed international observers to oversee the elections .
according to media reports , president kurbanguly berdymukhamedov saw the step as necessary to prove that the oil- and gas-rich nation can meet western standards of democracy .
but opposition groups boycotted the election .
groups representing uzbeks , the nation 's largest minority , complained that there was not a single uzbek name on the ballots .
additionally , human rights group argued that recent reforms implemented by berdymukhamedov 's government were mere window dressing .
a victory by groups with close ties to the administration was expected .
the government claims that seating a new parliament is a major step forward .
under berdymukhamedov 's predecessor , laws were rubber-stamped by a group known as the people 's council , which was loyal to former president saparmurat niyazov , also known as turkmenbaschi , or leader of all turkmens .
niyazov died in 2006 .
the indian navy has captured 23 somalian pirates .
the pirates were about to board a vessel in the gulf of aden when they were apprehended .
last month , india 's navy drew criticism after sinking a thai fishing trawler that had been commandeered hours earlier by pirates , but the navy says it fired in self-defence .
somali pirates have become increasingly brazen , and recently seized a saudi supertanker loaded with e75m worth of crude oil .
ins sukanya intercepts pirate ships , arms seized .
november 12 , 2011 .
indian navy has foiled a piracy attempt on 5 indian merchant vessels in international waters .
navy's frigate ins sukanya intercepted 3 pirate ships and seized arms and ammunition from the pirates .
news x has exclusive pictures of the anti - piracy operation .
this operation was part of the international efforts to secure high seas ; india has been at the forefront of anti - piracy operations .
the indian navy said it arrested 23 pirates who threatened a merchant vessel in the gulf of aden on saturday , the latest in a series of recent clashes with somali pirates .
indian forces repulsed the pirates as they were about to board the merchant ship , navy spokesman commander nirad sinha said .
the pirates are from somalia and yemen , two countries surrounding the gulf of aden , sinha said .
no further details were immediately available .
last month , india 's navy drew criticism after sinking a thai fishing trawler that had been commandeered hours earlier by pirates .
the navy defended its actions , saying it had fired in self-defense .
somali pirates have become increasingly brazen in recent months , seizing a number of vessels including a saudi supertanker loaded with $ 100 million worth of crude oil .
somalia , an impoverished nation caught up in an islamic insurgency , has not had a functioning government since 1991 .
ins sukanya foils piracy attempt in gulf of eden .
sat nov 12 2011 , 01 : 19 hrs .
warship ins sukanya on thursday foiled a piracy attempt in the gulf of aden between somalia and yemen .
the ship was escorting a group of five merchant vessels through the internationally recognised transit corridor ( irtc ) when the bid occurred .
this is the fifth anti - piracy operation carried out by the warship after it was sent for patrol missions to the gulf of aden in september .
the course of ins sukanya was altered to intercept boats targeting the merchant vessels .
"the incident occurred around 9 . 25 am when five boats were seen approaching the vessels . . .
seeing the warship headed in their direction , the skiffs tried to escape .
while two of them managed to flee , boarding - and - search operations were carried out on the other three , " a defence spokesperson said .
six ak 47 rifles , 12 magazines and 300 rounds of ammunition were seized from the boats .
they had 26 crewmen aboard , all somalian nationals .
"we also managed to find grapnels , ladders and rope - handling gloves , which are proof that those caught were pirates . " .
in another successful anti-piracy operation , navy warship on saturday repulsed an attack on a merchant vessel in the gulf of aden and nabbed 23 somali and yemeni sea brigands , in a show of resolve to weed out the menace that affected maritime trade in the region .
the pirates on two speed boats had surrounded the merchant vessel flying the ethiopian flag around noon , when ins mysore warship intervened and warded off the attack , navy spokesperson said .
the pirates had fired at the merchant vessel with their small arms , when it sent out a rescue call and the indian warship , which was sailing nearby moved its marine commandos on a helicopter to help the distressed cargo vessel , he said .
the attack took place about 150 nautical miles off aden and ins mysore was about 13 nautical miles away from the merchant vessel when it picked up the sos call .
the navy flew its marine commandos on helicopters to the scene of the pirate attack and rescued the ship. mv gibe was later escorted to safety , he added .
the naval commandos also boarded the pirates ' boats and seized seven ak-47 assault rifles , two other rifles , a grenade launcher and 13 fully loaded magazines of ammunition from the 12 somali and 11 yemeni pirates on board the two pirate boats .
further search for other pirates , who fled from the spot following the indian naval intervention , was in progress , the spokesperson said .
last month , navy warship ins tabar , a missile-frigate , had sunk a mother ship of the pirates and had also rescued two merchant vessels that were under attack from the sea brigands .
after the successful counter attack on the pirates , ins mysore later escorted mv gibe to safety , the navy spokesperson said .
it also launched further search for some of the pirates who escaped after the launch of the marine commando operation .
indian navy has also sought assistance from warships of other countries deployed on anti-piracy patrols in the gulf of aden to catch the runaway brigands , he said .
new delhi had taken a serious view of piracy-related incidents in the gulf of aden , the primary sea lane for global maritime trade to and fro oil-rich west asia , following the abduction of mv stolt valor , which had 18 indian sailors on board , by somali pirates from the region on september 15 , 2008 .
on october 23 , india gave a go-ahead to the navy 's request for a pro-active approach to counter the outlaws operating with audacity in the region along the horn of africa .
the navy rushed its stealth frigate ins tabar , which was already deployed nearby to gulf of aden on november 2 and since then it rescued an indian vessel mv jag arnav and a saudi cargo ship on november 11 and also sunk a pirate 'mother ship ' on november 19 .
the 'first kill ' , as navy chief admiral sureesh mehta had later described the sinking , turned out to be a thai fishing trawler under the pirates ' control carrying a lot of ammunition and it went up in flames after ins tabar fired at it in retaliation .
the indian navy captured 23 pirates in the gulf of aden after rescuing a merchant vessel that was being hijacked on saturday , the defence ministry said .
the indian ins mysore was patrolling the waters when it received a distress call from ethiopian-flagged mv gibe saying two boats were closing in and firing , a defence ministry statement said .
" on sighting the helicopter and mysore , the boats disengaged from mv gibe and attempted escape .
mysore closed the vessels and ordered them to stop . " .
indian commandos boarded the larger pirate boat , seizing 12 somali and 11 yemeni nationals as well as arms and equipment , the statement said .
piracy in the gulf of aden has been on a rise this year , with several high-profile hijackings , including the capture of saudi supertanker sirius star , which was loaded with $ 100 million of crude oil .
the indian navy has captured 23 pirates who threatened a merchant vessel in the lawless waters of the gulf of aden .
the indians say the pirates were from somalia and yemen , two countries on the coast of the gulf .
also , a german naval helicopter thwarted another attack today on a freighter being chased by speedboats off yemen .
both ships that were targeted by the pirates are said to be ethiopian .
somali pirates recently seized a saudi supertanker loaded with $ 100 million of crude oil .
also , the threat of pirates recently prompted a german cruise ship to evacuate some 420 passengers and crew after the company decided not to risk their safety as the ship passed through the gulf of aden .
secretary of state condoleezza rice is set to ask the u.n. to authorize " all necessary measures " against the increasingly bold somalian pirates .
msnbc is reporting that the indian navy claims they have captured 23 pirates in the gulf of aden .
this the region where so many ships have recently been commandeered .
they had " a large cache of weapons including 7 ak-47 rifles , a rocket propelled grenade launcher , and 3 machine guns . " .
they are taking the vessels to pirate controlled regions in somalia , with an estimated 1,500 pirates .
commandos from an indian warship today caught pirates in the act in the gulf of aden and took 23 of them into custody , a spokesperson at naval headquarters said .
indian naval ship mysore , a destroyer , picked up a distress call from merchant vessel gibe , which flies an ethiopian flag , when it was 13 nautical miles ( about 24km ) from the cargo ship .
details of what exactly happened are still awaited .
the gibe was about 150 nautical miles ( about 277km ) from aden when the pirates , said to be in a dhow or fishing vessel named salaluddin , fired at it and tried to board it , according to information available now .
two speedboats suspected to be carrying more pirates were approaching the gibe .
the navy spokesperson said marine commandos from the mysore flew in the destroyer 's embarked helicopter , boarded the salaluddin and caught 12 somalis and 11 yemenis .
they also confiscated seven ak-47s , a 5.56mm and a 7.62mm rifles , a grenade launcher , three outboard motors ( used to power dinghies or inflatable rafts ) , a handheld global positioning system and mobile phones .
the pirates in the speedboats fled .
the mysore is tasked to patrol a 480-nautical-mile corridor from bab-el-mandab in the west to the mouth of the gulf of aden .
it is required to be in touch with merchant vessels within a 15-nautical-mile radius at all times .
last month , marine commandos from ins tabar were reported to have rescued two cargo vessels that were being attacked .
later , the tabar fired at and sank a thai trawler that the indian navy said was a pirate " mother vessel " .
the mysore will eventually replace the tabar in patrolling the gulf of aden and off the coast of somalia .
a much larger ship than the frigate , the mysore was deployed because it is capable of staying out at sea longer without having to replenish frequently .
for the fourth time in two months , the indian navy on saturday took the bandits head on foiling a piracy attempt and putting 23 pirates out of business .
indian naval services ( ins ) mysore , the indian naval destroyer on anti-piracy patrol in the gulf of aden , rescued an ethiopian ship , mv gibe .
pirates on a dhow and a smaller boat attacked this merchant ship about 1100 hrs ist , 150 nautical miles west of aden , firing machine guns to scare the crew .
the indian warship , which was escorting merchant ships some 13 miles away , responded to the distress call .
they launched marine commandos on an armed helicopter and altered course to confront the pirates .
the bandits lost nerve on seeing the helicopter and the warships and attempted to flee .
the ins mysore fired warning shots , forcing the pirates to give up .
marine commandos boarded the pirate dhow , salahaddin , which had the smaller boat in tow .
of the 23 pirates arrested , 12 are reported to be somali and 11 yemeni .
the cache of arms on the pirate ship included seven ak-47 rifles , one rocket propelled grenade launcher , grenades and three other rifles .
the pirates have been taken on board the ins mysore .
they are likely to be handed over to law enforcing authorities in djibouti .
the indian anti-piracy patrol is moving full steam ahead undeterred by the adverse publicity which followed the november 18 sinking of a thai fishing trawler in indian naval action against pirates on board .
the indian navy said saturday it had captured 23 pirates as they tried to board an ethiopian-flagged vessel in the gulf of aden .
the pirates were somali and yemeni , the bbc reported. a navy spokesman said the indians responded to a distress call from the mv gibe and caught the pirates in the act .
on friday , a high-level u.s. naval commander said attacking somali ports probably would n't be effective in battling rampant piracy .
speaking at a security conference in bahrain attended by representatives from 25 countries , u.s. navy vice adm. bill gortney said there would many difficulties in attacking land bases in an effort to curtail piracy .
gortney maintained that civilian casualties could be high in such attacks because pirates would be hard to identify .
instead , he suggested shippers employ armed guards to protect their vessels from hijackings .
meanwhile , somali pirates saturday released a greek chemical tanker , the mv action , they had held since october , a piracy monitor told cnn .
" she is currently limping to safe waters ( and ) it is feared that three crew members lost their lives under questionable circumstances , " andrew mwangura , head of the seafarers assistance program in mombasa , kenya .
taking the lead in the fight against piracy , the indian navy on saturday arrested 23 somali pirates .
an indian warship , ins mysore deployed in the gulf of aden attacked two boats of pirates after receiving signals from a ship that the pirates were trying to hijack .
the indian warship was patrolling in the somali waters when it rushed to rescue mv gibe , a merchant vessel flying the ethiopian flag .
the pirates on two speed boats had surrounded the merchant vessel , when ins mysore warship intervened and warded off the attack , navy spokesperson said here .
the pirates had fired at the merchant vessel with their small arms , when it sent out a rescue call and the indian warship , which was sailing nearby moved its marine commandos on an helicopter to help the distressed cargo vessel , he said .
the attack took place about 150 nautical miles off aden and ins mysore was about 13 nautical miles away from the merchant vessel when it picked up the sos call .
the navy flew its marine commandos on helicopters to the scene of the pirate attack and rescued the ship. mv gibe was later escorted to safety , he added .
the indian commandos also recovered 12 ak 47 guns , three rifles , two grenades along with other ammunition .
out of 23 arrested pirates , 12 are reportedly from somalia and 11 from yemen .
the indian warship , the ins mysore , was dispatched to the gulf of aden after a spike in piracy and hijackings off the coast of somalia , which is caught up in an islamic insurgency and has had no functioning government since 1991 .
the indian navy on saturday prevented pirates from attacking a merchant vessel flying an ethiopian flag in the gulf of aden and took 23 into custody .
responding to a distress call by mv gibe , ins mysore on anti-piracy patrol in the area , swung into action against the pirates in two boats , a defence ministry release said .
the apprehended included 12 somalis and 11 yemenis. seven ak-47s , three other automatic rifles , 13 loaded magazines , a rocket-propelled grenade-launcher , rockets , cartridges and grenades were found in the boats .
there were also three outboard motors and a global positioning system receiver .
the personnel , arms , ammunition and equipment would be handed over to appropriate authorities ashore .
the ministry said mv gibe put out a message at 1100 hours that it was under attack from two boats closing in on it and firing small arms .
the merchant vessel retaliated with small arms onboard .
the warship some 13 nautical miles away , altered course and launched its integral armed helicopter .
on sighting the warship and the helicopter , the pirates attempted to escape .
ins mysore closed in and ordered them to stop .
the larger boat , a dhow was identified as salahuddin , with the second smaller boat in tow .
marine commandos boarded the dhow at 1230 hours and apprehended the pirates and recovered the arms , ammunition and equipment .
pti reports .
last month , navy warship ins tabar , a missile-frigate , had sunk a mother ship of the pirates and had also rescued two merchant vessels under attack .
on november 19 , ins tabar sunk a fishing trawler that was under the control of pirates , in a third successive strike since its deployment on november 2 this year .
updated : november 11 , 2011 20 : 09 ist .
navy foils somali pirate attack off gulf of aden .
the indian navy patrolling the gulf of aden on thursday thwarted a multi - boat attack by sea brigands on merchant vessels , apprehending 26 somali pirates and confiscating arms and ammunition , in the fifth successful anti - piracy operation since september .
at 9 . 25 a . m . on thursday , navy personnel aboard warship ins sukanya spotted a group of five suspicious boats speedily approaching the merchant vessels of her group .
" the warship immediately altered ( its direction ) towards the suspicious vessels and challenged them .
on seeing the resolve evident in the warship " s action and probably mindful of the reputation for resolute action that the indian navy justly enjoys in such deployments , the pirate skiffs reversed course and tried to flee the area , " captain manohar nambiar , chief public relations officer , defence , said .
while two of them managed to escape , ins sukanya successfully intercepted the remaining three boats and , in a well - practiced and professionally executed boarding - and - search action , nabbed 26 somali pirates with six ak 47 rifles , 12 magazines and about 300 rounds of ammunition .
this is the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conducted by ins sukanya in the course of her ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden that commenced in september , the navy said .
ins sukanya , currently deployed on anti - piracy patrols in the gulf of aden under the operational control of the western naval command , was escorting a group of five merchant vessels through the internationally recognised transit corridor when the incident happened .
the timely operation by ins sukanya resulted , once again , in foiling the pirates " attempt to attack merchant vessels transiting the busy sea lane through which over nearly $100 billion worth india " s external trade passes each year , captain nambiar said .
in their five operations so far , the personnel on board the warship have confiscated 14 ak - 47 rifles , 31 magazines and 923 rounds of ammunition , he said .
indian navy is part of the international effort to ensure the safety and freedom of seaborne trade in this high - risk stronghold of modern - day piracy .
indian naval forces came to the rescue of a merchant vessel under attack by pirates in the gulf of aden on saturday , capturing 23 of the raiders , india said .
india 's ins mysore and its armed helicopter were on anti-piracy patrol when they received a distress call from the ethiopian-flagged mv gibe saying two boats were closing in and firing , a defence ministry statement said .
" on sighting the helicopter and mysore , the boats disengaged from mv gibe and attempted escape .
mysore closed the vessels and ordered them to stop . " .
indian commandos boarded the larger pirate boat , seizing 12 somali and 11 yemeni nationals as well as arms and equipment , the statement said .
a surge in piracy this year in the busy gulf of aden and indian ocean off somalia has driven up insurance costs , earned the gangs tens of millions of dollars in ransoms , and prompted foreign navies to rush to the area to protect shipping .
several international naval operations are under way off somalia , including a nato anti-piracy mission .
the indian navy in november said it had sunk the somali pirate " mother ship " , though an anti-piracy watchdog later said the vessel was actually a thai ship carrying fishing equipment that was being hijacked .
somalia has seen continuous conflict since 1991 and its weak western-backed government is still fighting islamist insurgents .
the chaos has helped fuel the explosion in piracy .
there have been nearly 100 attacks in somali waters this year .
pirates holding about a dozen ships and nearly 300 crewmen in safe havens on the somali coast .
among the captured vessels are a saudi supertanker loaded with $ 100 million of crude oil , the sirius star , and a ukrainian cargo ship carrying some 30 soviet-era tanks , the mv faina .
indian ship thwarts piracy attempt in gulf of aden , 26 pirates arrested .
updated : november 11 , 2011 18 : 50 ist .
indian naval ship , ins sukanya , thwarted a piracy attack in the gulf of aden and captured three boats of the pirates .
a statement from the defence pro says the incident happened yesterday when ins sukanya was escorting a group of merchant vessels .
five pirate boats tried to attack these vessels but were challenged by the indian naval ship .
after a brief skirmish , two of them managed to flee the area but three boats were captured by ins sukanya , the statement said .
the three boats had a total of 26 somali crew onboard .
during the operation , six ak - 47 rifles , 12 magazines and about 300 rounds of ammunition were found and confiscated .
the operation holds significance as over a hundred billion dollars of india's external trade passes each year through this busy sea lane .
this is the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conducted by ins sukanya , in the course of her ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden , which commenced in september .
striking another blow against the pirates infesting the waters off the horn of africa , an indian navy warship not only repulsed an attack on a merchant vessel in the gulf of aden , but nabbed 23 somali and yemeni sea brigands .
the pirates , in three boats , were attempting to hijack the ethopian-flagged merchant vessel around noon today , when the destroyer ins mysore intervened and repulsed the attack , a navy spokesman said here .
the incident took place about 150 nautical miles off aden .
after the mysore picked up a distress call from the merchant vessel , mv gibe , at around 11 a.m. saying it was under attack , it immediately lauched its helicopter and headed for the scene .
on sighting the helicopter and the mysore , the pirates broke off their attack and attempted to escape , but the warship chased them down .
marine commandos boarded two of the pirate vessels to nab 12 somali and 11 yemeni pirates .
nine assault rifles , a grenade launcher , 13 fully loaded magazines and a gps receiver were seized from the pirates , the navy spokesman said .
the larger boat , a 10-metre dhow , is named the salahaddin .
it had a smaller boat , a skiff , under tow , navy sources said .
the ins mysore later escorted the mv gibe to safety .
the pirates are being held on board the mysore and will be handed over to appropriate authorities ashore , possibly at djibouti in ivory coast , the warship 's next port of call .
today 's operation is the fourth successful offensive by the navy in the heart of the pirates ' zone of operations .
last month , the ins tabar , a missile-frigate , had sunk a thai trawler that was being used as a mothership by the pirates and also rescued two merchant vessels that were under attack .
the mysore , a 6,900-tonne destroyer , replaced the tabar on patrol in the region about a fortnight ago .
dozen of warships of several countries are also patrolling the shipping lanes in the gulf of aden .
india 's recent pro-active approach against piracy reflects the concern of the maritime community over a new surge in hijackings off somalia .
the international maritime bureau has reported that pirates based in the lawless african nation were now " out of control " .
new delhi had taken a serious view of piracy-related incidents in the region following the hijacking of mv stolt valor , with 18 indian sailors on board , by somali pirates in september this year .
on 23 october , the government gave a go-ahead to the navy 's request for a pro-active approach against the pirates .
indian navy foils attack in gulf of aden , nabs 26 pirates .
mumbai , nov 11 - .
indian navy patrolling the gulf of aden yesterday thwarted a multi - boat attack by sea brigands on merchant vessels , apprehending 26 somali pirates and confiscating arms and ammunition , in the fifth successful anti - piracy operation since september .
at about 9 : 25 thursday morning , navy personnel aboard warship ins sukanya spotted a group of five suspicious boats speedily approaching the merchant vessels of her group .
"the warship immediately altered ( its direction ) towards the suspicious vessels and challenged them .
on seeing the resolve evident in the warship's action and probably mindful of the reputation for resolute action that the indian navy justly enjoys in such deployments , the pirate skiffs reversed course and tried to flee the area , " captain manohar nambiar , chief public relations officer , defence , said .
while two of them managed to escape , ins sukanya successfully intercepted the remaining three boats and , in a well - practiced and professionally executed boarding - and - search action , nabbed 26 somali pirates with six ak 47 rifles , 12 magazines and about 300 rounds of ammunition .
this is the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conducted by ins sukanya in the course of her ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden that commenced in september , the navy said .
warship sukanya , currently deployed on anti - piracy patrols in the gulf of aden under the operational control of the western naval command , was escorting a group of five merchant vessels through the internationally recognised transit corridor when the incident happened .
the timely operation by ins sukanya resulted , once again , in foiling the pirates' attempt to attack merchant vessels transiting the busy sea lane through which over nearly 100 billion usd worth india's external trade passes each year , nambiar said .
in their five operations so far , the personnel on board the warship have confiscated 14 ak - 47 rifles , 31 magazines and 923 rounds of ammunition , he said .
indian navy is part of the international effort to ensure the safety and freedom of seaborne trade in this high - risk stronghold of modern - day piracy .
the indian navy captured 23 pirates who threatened a merchant vessel in the lawless waters of the gulf of aden and a german naval helicopter thwarted another attack saturday on a freighter being chased by speedboats off yemen .
the successes came days before secretary of state condoleezza rice was to ask the united nations to authorize " all necessary measures " against increasingly bold somalian pirates operating in one of the world 's busiest shipping lanes .
an indian navy ship , the ins mysore , was escorting merchant ships in waters off somalia 's coast saturday when it received a distress call from seamen on board the mv gibe , who said they were being fired on by two boats that were approaching fast .
the mysore and its helicopter sped to the scene , and the pirate boats attempted to escape when they saw them , according to a statement from the indian government .
indian marine commandoes boarded the pirate boats and seized " a substantial cache of arms and equipment , " including seven ak-47 assault rifles , three machine guns , a rocket-propelled grenade launcher and other weapons , the statement said .
they also found a gps receiver and other equipment .
the pirates were from somalia and yemen , two countries on the coast of the gulf of aden .
the gibe was flying an ethiopian flag but little else was known about it , the indian statement said .
last month , india 's navy drew criticism after sinking a thai fishing trawler that had been commandeered hours earlier by pirates .
at least one thai crew member was killed in the attack , which the indian navy had originally announced by saying it had sunk a pirate " mother ship . " .
the indian navy defended its actions , saying it had fired in self-defense .
somali pirates have become increasingly brazen and recently seized a saudi supertanker loaded with $ 100 million of crude oil .
many of the vessels are taken to pirate-controlled regions in somalia , where they are held for ransom .
it was not immediately clear what would happen to the pirates captured by the indians , or where they would be taken .
the statement said only that the prisoners and their weapons would be " handed over to appropriate authorities ashore . " .
most foreign navies patrolling the somali coast have been reluctant to detain suspects because of uncertainties over where they would face trial , since somalia has no effective central government or legal system .
also on saturday , a german military spokesman said a navy frigate had chased away pirates in speedboats pursuing an ethiopian freighter off the coast of yemen .
the german frigate responded to a distress call from the freighter , and a helicopter took off from the deck to investigate .
the pirates turned away from the freighter as the helicopter flew overhead , said the spokesman , who declined to give his name in line with military policy .
an estimated 1,500 pirates are based in somalia 's semiautonomous puntland region , raking in millions of dollars .
secretary of state condoleezza rice will present a draft security council resolution next week asking the united nations to authorize " all necessary measures " against piracy from somalia .
however , the commander of the u.s. navy 's 5th fleet expressed doubt friday about the wisdom of launching attacks against somali pirates on land , as the draft proposes .
u.s. vice adm. bill gortney told reporters that it is difficult to identify pirates , and the potential for killing innocent civilians " can not be overestimated . " .
the threat of pirates recently prompted a german cruise ship to evacuate some 420 passengers and crew after the company decided not to risk their safety as the ship passed through the gulf of aden .
the passengers and crew have rejoined the m/s columbus - which is on a six-month round-the-world trip - in oman 's port of salalah after three days in dubai , hamburg-based cruise operator hapag-lloyd said saturday .
the ship and a limited crew made it through the gulf without incident , a company spokeswoman said .
indian navy captures 26 somali pirates in gulf of aden .
published on : fri , 11 nov 2011 at 09 : 56 ist .
new delhi / mumbai : an indian warship foiled a five - boat pirate attack on merchant vessels transiting the gulf of aden on friday capturing 26 somani brigands on three of the skiffs and confiscating their weapons .
patrol vessel ins sukanya was escorting the five merchant vessels through the internationally recognised transit corridor in the gulf of aden on thursday morning when the warship's crew noticed the five - boat pirate formation approaching the cargo ship group .
"the warship immediately altered towards the suspicious vessels and challenged them , " the officer said , adding the pirate skiffs then reversed course and tried to flee the area .
"while two of the skiffs and its crew managed to get away , sukanya successfully intercepted the remaining three skiffs and carried out well - practiced and professionally executed boarding - and - search action .
"the three boats had a total of 26 somali crew on board .
during the operation , six ak - 47 rifles , 12 magazines and about 300 rounds of ammunition were found and confiscated , " the officer said .
he said that in addition , the naval boarding party also found a host of other equipment such as grapnels , ladders and rope - handling gloves , all of which confirmed their intent to attack and hijack the merchant vessels .
this anti - piracy action by ins sukanya was the fifth successful operation by its crew during its current patrol mission in the gulf of aden since september this year .
the officer said that ins sukanya has seized a total of 14 ak - 47 rifles , 31 magazines and 923 rounds of ammunition during the five operations it carried out there .
striking yet another blow at the very heart of piracy in the gulf of aden , indian warship ins mysore and its marine commandos thwarted a hijack attempt on an ethiopian merchant vessel on saturday and captured 23 pirates and a large arms cache in the operation .
the arrest of the 23 pirates ( 12 somali and 11 yemeni ) and the arms haul is the largest such seizure in the ongoing anti-piracy operations off somalia .
the confiscated arms and equipment included seven ak-47s , three other assault rifles , 13 loaded magazines , a rocket-propelled grenade launcher with two rockets , several grenades , a gps set and a mobile phone .
early november , the british royal navy had captured eight pirates , who were subsequently handed over to kenya to face trial in the port town of mombasa .
" the external affairs ministry is now working to find out to which country the 23 pirates in ins mysore 's custody can be handed over , " said a senior officer .
" ins mysore , which replaced stealth frigate ins tabar early december , may head for djibouti on the horn of africa .
our plan to base a maritime reconnaissance aircraft like a dornier at djibouti ( which has a french military base ) is also underway , " he added .
pirates operating with sheer impunity from ports like eyl and hobyo in somalia , torn apart by an 18-year-old civil war , have already attacked as many as 100 merchant vessels transiting through the crucial shipping lane this year .
at least 17 of the hijacked ships and their crew are still being held captive by the pirates for ransom .
the dramatic action on the high seas on saturday began at 11am ist when the 6,900-tonne delhi-class missile destroyer ins mysore received a " distress call " over the mmb channel 16 from ethiopian merchant vessel gibe that it was being attacked by a pirate " mother dhow " and a speedboat around 150 nautical miles east of aden .
an armed chetak helicopter , with four marine commandos , was immediately " launched " from ins mysore towards gibe , which was 13 nautical miles from the indian warship at that point in time .
" the sailors on gibe were exchanging small arms fire with the pirates .
on spotting the armed chetak hovering overhead , the pirate boats broke off their attack , " said an officer .
soon after , steaming at full speed , the deadly ins mysore also reached the spot .
by then , all 23 pirates had clambered onto the 10-metre-long dhow -- later identified as 'salahaddin ' -- in a bid to escape .
ins mysore then opened fire across the dhow 's bows with its heavy-calibre machine guns , forcing the sea bandits to come to a complete halt .
a detachment of heavily-armed marine commandos promptly sped across to the pirate dhow in their fibre-glass inflatable boats .
" seeing the marcos , the pirates surrendered quite easily , even though for some time they pretended to be plain fishermen .
a search of the dhow led to the discovery of the large arms cache and three outboard motors , " he said .
" the grenades , being unstable , were thrown off overboard .
the 23 pirates and the other arms were taken on board ins mysore , which will resume its patrolling duties after handing over them over to appropriate ashore authorities , " he added .
though over 20 warships from us , eu and other countries are patrolling the piracy-infested gulf of aden , which connects the red sea to the indian ocean , it 's actually the indian navy which has taken the battle to the pirates .
on november 11 , ins tabar had repulsed two hijack attempts , one on an indian ship ( mv jag arnav ) and the other on a saudi oil carrier ( ncc tihama ) , one after the other .
then , on november 18 , it had sunk thai trawler " ekawat nava 5 " , which had been commandeered by pirates , after a gunbattle .
though the navy had come in for some criticism for sinking the thai trawler , admiral sureesh mehta had declared that his force had done nothing wrong .
" thai ownership does not change the situation .
it was under the command of pirates .
use of force was inevitable ... .
we acted in self-defence , " said the navy chief .
external affairs minister pranab mukherjee , too , had strongly defended the navy 's anti-piracy action on the high seas .
must see : navy pins down somali pirates in heroic face - off .
last updated on : november 11 , 2011 19 : 04 ist .
indian naval ship sukanya , deployed on anti - piracy patrols in the gulf of aden under the operational control of the western naval command , thwarted a multiple - boat attack by pirates on thursday and rescued 26 somali crewmembers .
the ship was escorting a group of five merchant vessels through the internationally recognised transit corridor at 9 : 25 hours on thursday when officers onboard detected a group of five boats approaching the merchant vessels .
the warship immediately changed its route and challenged the pirates ferrying the suspicious vessels .
the pirates tried to reverse the course of the boats and tried to flee .
two managed to give the indian navy a slip , but the other three boats were intercepted .
during the operation , six ak 47 rifles , 12 magazines and about 300 rounds of ammunition were found and confiscated .
in addition , a host of other equipment such as grapnels were also confiscated .
this is the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conducted by sukanya , in the course of her ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden , which commenced in september .
so far , the indian navy has confiscated 14 ak 47 rifles , 31 magazines and 923 rounds of ammunition from pirates .
the indian navy on saturday foiled a hijack attempt in the notorious gulf of aden and arrested 23 heavily armed somalian and yemeni pirates .
within minutes of receiving a distress call from an ethiopian vessel , mv gibe , ins mysore , a delhi-class destroyer , launched an armed helicopter with marine commandos onboard to stop the pirates from boarding and hijacking the vessel .
the skipper of the ethiopian vessel , sailing 150 nautical miles west of aden , radioed a message at around 11 am ( ist ) saying that pirates had brought his ship under heavy fire .
the mysore , which replaced stealth frigate ins tabar in november-end , immediately launched a helicopter and began closing in on the vessel .
upon sighting the chopper , the pirates abandoned their plans to hijack the vessel .
instead , navy sources said , they tied their skiffs ( speedboats ) to the mother vessel and pretended to be fishermen .
the mother vessel , a 10-metre craft called salahaddin , had some catch stocked in it to give the impression that it was a fishing vessel .
the mysore intercepted the mother vessel and fired ahead of it to prevent the pirates from getting away .
sources said the marine commandos had sighted pirates carrying rocket-propelled grenade launchers and automatic weapons .
as mysore engaged the pirates , the commandos boarded the salahaddin and arrested the pirates , who decided not to hold out as they were no match for the indian warship .
the navy recovered seven ak-47 assault rifles , rpg launchers , three speedboats , grenades and other ammunition .
the pirates were taken onboard and would be handed over to authorities in djibouti .
it was in november that the government authorized the navy to undertake " hot pursuit " of pirates in the territorial waters of somalia , which descended into anarchy in 1991 .
a country 's territorial waters extend to 12 nautical miles from shore .
the navy has been carrying out anti-piracy patrols in the international waters off the gulf of aden since october 23 to " protect indian sea-borne trade , instill confidence in the seafaring community and act as a deterrent for pirates . " .
" hot pursuit " empowers the navy to temporarily violate the maritime border of somalia to pursue pirates .
this marks the fourth success of the navy against pirates after it launched anti-piracy patrols .
on november 19 , tabar sank a somalian pirate vessel after being threatened with disastrous consequences .
a few days before that , the same warship foiled two hijack attempts in the gulf of aden -- - the world 's most dangerous waters for commercial shipping .
it rescued an indian flagship and a saudi arabian merchant vessel .
indian naval ship interdicts three pirate vessels in a single operation .
posted on november 15 , 2011 6 : 07 : 15 pm gmt+01 : 0 .
indian naval ship sukanya , presently deployed on anti - piracy patrols in the gulf of aden under the operational control of the western naval command , found herself once again in the thick of things , thwarting a multiple - boat piracy attack on 10 nov 11 .
the ship was escorting a group of five merchant vessels through the irtc ( internationally recognised transit corridor ) when , at about 9 : 25 in the morning of 10th nov , she detected a group of five suspicious boats , speedily approaching the merchant vessels of her group .
the warship immediately altered towards the suspicious vessels and challenged them .
on seeing the resolve evident in the warship " s action and probably mindful of the reputation for resolute action that the indian navy justly enjoys in such deployments , the pirate skiffs reversed course and tried to flee the area .
while two of them managed to get away , the sukanya successfully intercepted the remaining three and carried out well practiced and professionally executed boarding - and - search action .
the three boats had a total of 26 somali crew onboard .
during the operation , six ak 47 rifles , 12 magazines and about 300 rounds of ammunition were found and confiscated .
in addition , the boarding party also found a host of other equipment such as grapnels , ladders and rope - handling gloves all of which confirmed their piratical intent .
the timely operation by sukanya resulted , once again , in foiling the pirates " intention of attacking merchant vessels transiting this busy sea lane through which over a hundred billion dollars of india " s external trade passes each year .
this is the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conducted by sukanya , in the course of her ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden , which commenced in september .
the ship has , thus far , confiscated a total of 14 ak 47 rifles , 31 magazines and 923 rounds of ammunition , thereby ensuring that the indian navy retains its standing as a force not to be trifled with , and remains at the forefront of anti - piracy operations , as a critical component of the international effort to curb piracy and ensure the safety and freedom of seaborne trade , even in this highly risk - prone area .
the indian navy said it has captured 23 somali and yemeni pirates who attacked a merchant vessel in the gulf of aden on saturday .
an indian navy ship sent its marine commandos on a helicopter towards the ethiopian flag-bearing vessel mv gibe after getting a distress call from it as it came under fire from two boats , the navy said in a statement .
the boats tried to escape on seeing the navy ship but were chased and the pirates surrendered to the commandos when they boarded the boats .
" twenty-three personnel ( 12 somali and 11 yemeni ) surrendered on boarding , " the navy said .
the pirates , along with their arms and equipment , would be handed over to the appropriate authorities , it said , adding that the ship would return to patrolling the gulf of aden .
last month , the navy said it had sunk a pirate " mother vessel " off somalia in a battle that erupted after the indian ship ins tabar came under attack from gunmen on board the boat .
but the international maritime bureau later said that the vessel destroyed by the indian navy was actually a thai fishing trawler that had been seized by pirates off yemen .
somali pirates have carried out around 100 attacks in the gulf of aden and indian ocean since the start of this year .
they still hold at least 14 foreign vessels and more than 300 crew members to ransom .
somali pirate attack foiled in gulf of aden .
tnn nov 12 , 2011 , 05 . 51am ist mumbai .
an indian warship on thursday intercepted three boats with 26 somali pirates in the gulf of aden and foiled an attack on merchant vessels .
ins sukanya detected five suspicious boats , speedily approaching the merchant vessels that the warship was escorting through the internationally recognized transit corridor .
"the warship immediately altered towards the suspicious vessels and challenged them .
while two of them managed to escape , ins sukanya successfully intercepted the remaining three and carried out boarding - and - search action , " said captain manohar nambiar , chief pro ( defence ) .
the navy confiscated 14 ak - 47 rifles , 31 magazines and 923 rounds from the boat along with grapnels , ladders and rope - handling gloves , nambiar said .
this is the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conducted by ins sukanya , during its patrol mission in the gulf of aden .
the indian navy captured 23 piracy suspects who tried to take over a merchant vessel in the gulf of aden , between the horn of africa and the arabian peninsula , indian officials said .
piracy suspects raise their hands in surrender as an indian navy boat approaches .
in addition to the 12 somali and 11 yemeni suspects , the indian navy seized two small boats and " a substantial cache of arms and equipment , " the military said in a statement .
among the seized items were seven ak-47 automatic rifles , three other automatic weapons and 13 loaded magazines ; a rocket-propelled grenade launcher along with rockets , cartridges and grenades ; up to three outboard motors and a global positioning system receiver .
pirate attacks in the waters off somalia have increased this year , with armed men staging increasingly bold attacks on ever-larger targets .
this year , pirates have attacked nearly 100 vessels off somalia 's coast and hijacked nearly 40 , the international maritime bureau said .
the indian warship mysore , which carried out saturday 's operation , is on anti-piracy patrol in the gulf of aden , the release said .
the mysore received a distress call saturday morning from the mv gibe , a merchant vessel sailing under an ethiopian flag .
the gibe reported that two boats were firing small arms at it .
the merchant ship , which was 13 nautical miles from the mysore , fired back with small arms onboard the vessel .
the mysore changed course toward the gibe and launched an armed helicopter , the indian military said .
upon seeing the helicopter and the mysore closing in , the attackers broke off and tried to flee , the release said .
the warship caught up to the boats , the larger of which was described as a 24- to 30-foot dhow , a traditional arab sailboat .
the dhow , identified as bearing the name salahaddin , was towing a smaller skiff .
indian sailors boarded the salahaddin , the military said , and the 23 suspects surrendered peacefully .
the suspects , weapons , ammunition and equipment will be handed over to authorities , and the mysore will return to patrol duties , india said .
last month , the indian navy said it had sunk a pirate " mother vessel " in the gulf of aden .
the ship 's owner said the sunken vessel was a thai trawler that was being seized by pirates when an indian warship fired on it .
sixteen crew members were aboard the ship , said wicharn sirichaiekawat , owner of the ekawat nava 5 .
two have been accounted for .
one crewman was found alive after six days adrift in the gulf of aden , and one is confirmed dead , the ship 's owner said .
indian authorities insisted that their ship , the frigate ins tabar , had acted against a pirate vessel that had threatened to attack it .
" we fired in self-defense and in response to firing upon our vessel , " commodore nirad sinha , a navy spokesman , told cnn .
" it was a pirate vessel in the international waters , and its stance was aggressive . " .
he said the ship the tabar fired on was laden with ammunition .
all sorts of vessels -- freight and cargo ships , cruise liners and private yachts -- have been attacked in the waters off somalia .
in many hijackings , pirates take the crew and passengers hostage and demand a ransom .
just this month , somali pirates captured two yemeni fishing boats and 22 yemeni fishermen in the gulf of aden , yemen 's official news agency saba reported .
a day earlier , the german cruise liner ms columbus said it would fly its 246 passengers and most of its crew over the gulf of aden instead of through it to avoid any pirate attack .
the united states is reportedly circulating a proposal in the u.n. security council that would allow military forces to enter somali territory in " hot pursuit " of pirates .
the pentagon said friday , however , that there are no plans for u.s. forces to go ashore in pursuit of pirates in somalia .
a five - boat pirate attack on merchant vessels transiting the gulf of aden was foiled by an indian warship that was on escort duty , capturing 26 somani brigands on three of the skiffs and confiscating their weapons , a naval officer said here friday .
patrol vessel ins sukanya was escorting the five merchant vessels through the internationally recognised transit corridor in the gulf of aden thursday morning when the warship's crew noticed the five - boat pirate formation approaching the cargo ship group .
"the warship immediately altered towards the suspicious vessels and challenged them , " the officer said , adding the pirate skiffs then reversed course and tried to flee the area .
"while two of the skiffs and its crew managed to get away , sukanya successfully intercepted the remaining three skiffs and carried out well - practiced and professionally executed boarding - and - search action .
"the three boats had a total of 26 somali crew on board .
during the operation , six ak - 47 rifles , 12 magazines and about 300 rounds of ammunition were found and confiscated , " the officer said .
in addition , the naval boarding party also found a host of other equipment such as grapnels , ladders and rope - handling gloves , all of which confirmed their intent to attack and hijack the merchant vessels , he said .
this anti - piracy action by ins sukanya was the fifth successful operation by its crew during its current patrol mission in the gulf of aden since september this year .
ins sukanya has seized a total of 14 ak - 47 rifles , 31 magazines and 923 rounds of ammunition during the five operations it carried out there , the officer said .
the indian navy says it has arrested 23 somali and yemeni pirates who tried to storm a ship in the gulf of aden .
a navy spokesman said it had responded to a mayday call from mv gibe , flying under the ethiopian flag .
several countries have warships patrolling the gulf amid growing international concern about piracy .
meanwhile , us defence secretary robert gates said better intelligence was needed for a land attack on pirate bases to be considered .
mr gates , speaking at a security conference in bahrain , also called for shipping companies to do more to protect their vessels travelling through the arabian sean and indian ocean .
the indian government said in a statement that the captured pirates had a cache of arms and equipment , including seven ak-47 assault rifles , three machine guns , and a rocket-propelled grenade launcher .
the pirates would be handed over to the appropriate authorities , the statement added .
last month , india 's navy said it had sunk a pirate " mother vessel " off somalia .
but it later emerged that the vessel was actually a thai fishing trawler that had been seized by pirates off yemen .
mr gates told the security conference .
" the need for increased maritime security and potentially new and better means of co-operation has been highlighted by the recent high-profile acts of piracy off the coast of somalia and in the gulf of aden .
robert gates called for companies to protect their ships better .
" as with terrorism , piracy is a problem that has serious international implications and should be of particular concern to any nation that depends on the seas for commerce . " .
mr gates said most ships could outrun the pirates and they should take more preventative measures , like pulling up their ladders when at sea and perhaps placing armed guards on board .
when asked by the bbc if the us intended to attack the pirates ' land bases , mr gates replied that the us and its allies would first need to acquire better intelligence on who is behind the ongoing attacks on shipping .
he said he believed that just two or three somali clans were responsible and that the individuals involved needed to be targeted accurately to avoid killing innocent civilians .
friday , november 11 , 2011 .
anti piracy ops by ins sukanya .
indian naval ship sukanya , presently deployed on anti - piracy patrols in the gulf of aden under the operational control of the western naval command , found herself once again in the thick of things , thwarting a multiple - boat piracy attack on 10 nov 11 .
the ship was escorting a group of five merchant vessels through the irtc ( internationally recognised transit corridor ) when , at about 9 : 25 in the morning of 10th nov , she detected a group of five suspicious boats , speedily approaching the merchant vessels of her group .
the warship immediately altered towards the suspicious vessels and challenged them .
on seeing the resolve evident in the warship's action and probably mindful of the reputation for resolute action that the indian navy justly enjoys in such deployments , the pirate skiffs reversed course and tried to flee the area .
while two of them managed to get away , the sukanya successfully intercepted the remaining three and carried out well practiced and professionally executed boarding - and - search action .
the three boats had a total of 26 somali crew onboard .
during the operation , six ak 47 rifles , 12 magazines and about 300 rounds of ammunition were found and confiscated .
in addition , the boarding party also found a host of other equipment such as grapnels , ladders and rope - handling gloves all of which confirmed their piratical intent .
the timely operation by sukanya resulted , once again , in foiling the pirates' intention of attacking merchant vessels transiting this busy sea lane through which over a hundred billion dollars of india's external trade passes each year .
this is the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conducted by sukanya , in the course of her ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden , which commenced in september .
the ship has , thus far , confiscated a total of 14 ak 47 rifles , 31 magazines and 923 rounds of ammunition , thereby ensuring that the indian navy retains its standing as a force not to be trifled with , and remains at the forefront of anti - piracy operations , as a critical component of the international effort to curb piracy and ensure the safety and freedom of seaborne trade , even in this highly risk - prone area .
the wasilla bible church , the alaskan church made famous as being the religious outpost for failed vp candidate and alaska governor sarah palin has caught fire .
the " suspicious " fire devastated the church friday night , and officials are considering arson among possibilities .
a ladies craft group was in the building when the fire broke out , although no one was hurt .
palin released a statement after the fire and offered an apology to the assistant pastor " if the incident is in any way connected to the undeserved negative attention the church has received since she became a vice presidential candidate . " .
burn baby , burn ?
estimated damage is in the vicinity of $ 1 million .
matanuska maid dairy building was uninsured .
august 8 , 2012 - 4 : 43 pm .
the fire that destroyed the original matanuska maid dairy warehouse in palmer on tuesday took a piece of alaska " s history .
the building dates to 1935 , when the original matanuska valley colonists settled in alaska , and has been on the alaska association for historic preservation " s list of endangered historic properties for several years .
judi bittner , the state " s historic preservation official , says the destruction of the building represents a big loss to the state " s history and to the people of palmer .
the property was in private ownership by anchorage attorney william ingaldson .
palmer public safety director jon owen said tuesday that the city had not purchased the property , although there were plans to do so .
" the building was uninsured , " owen said .
the anchorage daily news reports the value of the building at $380 , 600 .
the cause of the fire has not been determined .
authorities are now saying they suspect arson is to blame for friday night 's fire at wasilla bible church , where gov. sarah palin and her family attend .
it 's a sad day when the hate , anger and vengeful actions of a few overshadow our people here in alaska .
we do n't know if the fire is the result of radicals angry with palin , but we do know our governor has not been treated fairly .
for months i have been reading the lies about our first family of alaska .
i had to endure watching on tv an appalling effigy of gov. palin , part of a halloween display in a yard in southern california .
the governor of california did nothing , the mayor did nothing , and the neighbors thought it was " cool . " .
this effigy was a likeness of a woman swinging by a noose in someone 's yard !
where was the outrage ?
then there are those who have blasted the governor for her daughter 's pregnancy .
both have been brutally criticized , belittled and shamed .
children will do what they want as teenagers ; .
we parents try our best to instill good morals and values .
palin 's daughter 's upbringing has nothing to do with who our governor is or what she believes .
i was appalled to hear comments like , " well , she put herself in the limelight , so she deserved what she got . " .
there have also been those who have asked if the governor is really trig 's mom ?
where has the fair and balanced reporting been on that " story " ?
it is one thing to disagree with sarah palin 's views or beliefs , but to tear her and her family apart to make you feel more superior , to make you feel good about your hatred , anger and lack of christianity , that is appalling .
i do hope palin 's church was not torched because of her beliefs .
she and her family have never done anything to warrant the outlandish actions from her insensitive critics .
historic mat maid warehouse burns .
mat maid mop up .
remains of the mat maid warehouse smolder tuesday morning in palmer .
the fire was reported at 3 : 33 a . m . and is under investigation by the palmer police and the state fire marshal .
a church was devastated by fire , which was attended by alaska gov. sarah palin on friday night in her hometown of wasilla .
according to the church 's minister , " we have no idea what caused it " .
still , it was not specified that how many people were in the building at the time of the blaze .
the metal church building , which normally accommodates sunday congregations of up to 1,000 people , was heavily damaged by flames and smoke .
the church services would be held on schedule sunday in a nearby school .
tuesday , august 7 , 2012 .
farewell to another piece of mat maid .
fast - moving fire destroyed the historic matanuska maid warehouse early this morning .
the building was long vacant .
no injuries were reported .
firefighters arriving on scene could see the building was likely a total loss , so they focused on a bigger problem : making sure the blaze didn't reach the nearby , petroleum - loaded crowley maritime tank farm .
the first 9 - 1 - 1 call came at 3 : 33 a . m . from someone at valley hotel , palmer public safety director jon owen said this morning .
a total of 31 separate pieces of firefighting apparatus responded to the blaze , including three ladder trucks .
engines came from palmer fire department and mat - su central fire department , where responders mustered to an "all - call" from emergency dispatchers .
palmer fire chief john mcnutt was the first person to get to the fire .
mcnutt drove around the 9 - acre mat maid complex and spotted flames shooting out from below the eaves .
within minutes , the roof was engulfed , owen said .
crews operating under a "surround and drown" strategy suppressed the fire .
but their goal wasn't saving the old warehouse building , built in the 1930s , owen said .
their focus instead was preventing "the conflagration" sure to follow if the fire reached the adjacent crowley maritime corp . fuel sales office next door , where all the petroleum products on site would pose a tremendous problem should they ignite , he said .
the palmer tank farm holds 100 , 000 gallons of petroleum products and serves as a distribution center for anchorage , palmer , wasilla , and all the matanuska valley , according to crowley's web site .
the fire was knocked down by 6 : 40 a . m .
the warehouse used to be used for produce sold out of one end .
rindi remembers walking through it with owner bill ingaldson a few years back ; during the visit , she picked up an old potato sack decorated with the matanuska maid in her skating costume .
palmerites may remember that former city manager bill allen hoped to put a convention center on the property .
this is the second destructive fire at the mat maid complex .
a wind - whipped arson fire set by three teenagers destroyed the hardware store in february , 2003 .
investigators were at the scene by 10 a . m . or so trying to determine the cause of the fire ; finding the ignition source is key when there's no obvious heat source like a boiler , owen said .
anything suspicious will be followed up .
the investigation is being conducted by john bond , an inspector with the alaska state fire marshal's office , and palmer police sgt . shayne la croix .
anyone with information about this morning's fire is asked to call sgt . la croix at 745 - 4811 .
the wasilla bible church in wasilla , alaska was apparently attacked by an arsonist last night .
the fire , which broke out when several people were inside the church , did an estimated $ 1 million damage .
authorities described the fire as " suspicious and as potential arson . " .
the bible church 's head minister said , " someone intentionally did it , but we do n't know who and why . " .
he declined to say whether the church has received threats .
governor palin stopped by the church this morning and " told an assistant pastor that she apologizes if the incident is in any way connected to the undeserved negative attention the church has received since she became a vice presidential candidate . " .
given the insane hatred that democrats directed toward palin during the recent campaign , it would be easy to jump to the conclusion that the arson is the work of a liberal democrat .
but we do n't know that for sure .
there are many possible motives , and arsonists do n't necessarily need what would normally be regarded as a motive .
it would be a good thing for the country if this particular crime does not turn out to be politically motivated .
historic dairy building destroyed by fire .
published : 2012 . 08 . 08 09 : 01 am .
a fire on tuesday destroyed palmer's historic matanuska maid dairy warehouse building , which was built in the 1930s when colonists arrived from the midwest to try their hand at farming in alaska .
jon owen , the city's public safety director , said a call came in from the valley hotel at 3 : 33 a . m . from someone who saw the vacant building across town on fire .
by the time fire crews arrived , flames could be seen coming out from under the eaves all the way around the building .
in the next minute or two , the entire roof was in flames , owen said .
firefighters worked quickly to contain the blaze .
more than two dozen pieces of firefighting equipment were brought to the scene , including some that were placed between the warehouse building and a petroleum distribution company next door , owen said .
about 5 , 000 gallons of water a minute was poured on the fire .
it took about three hours to knock the fire down , but the building was destroyed , he said .
the warehouse building , one of the oldest in palmer , had been vacant for years and was boarded up , palmer city clerk janette bower told the associated press .
"it is very , very sad , " bower said .
the building was constructed in 1935 , predating statehood by more than 20 years .
"that is really old for alaska standards , " bower said .
the city was negotiating to purchase the property , along with at least a half - dozen others that once were part of the matanuska maid dairy operation .
voters in 2009 approved a $3 million bond to buy the properties , bower said .
but the negotiations were ongoing .
palmer does not own the properties , bower said .
while the city hadn't settled on a plan for the mat maid properties , some ideas had been bounced around , she said , including turning the properties into a new city hall complex , or using them for a museum or theater arts building .
bower said the colonists settled in the palmer area under the new deal to spur economic development during the great depression .
the idea was to see if there were agricultural opportunities to be had in alaska , bower said .
more than 200 families , mostly from wisconsin and minnesota , were brought to alaska under the matanuska colony project .
bower said the warehouse building was one of the first structures to be built .
the mat maid dairy started at that time as a dairy cooperative .
it was taken over by the state in the mid - 1980s after its private owner went bankrupt .
the money - losing operation was subsidized by the state and shut down for good in december 2007 .
it appeared for a time that the valley's tradition of dairy farming also would be lost but it was revived in 2008 under a private operation called the matanuska creamery , which is successfully filling a niche market for fresh milk and cheese produced entirely by alaska farmers .
wasilla bible church , the home church of alaska gov. sarah palin and her family , received an estimated $ 1 million in damage from a fire that was deliberately set friday night .
no one was injured , but several people , including two children , were inside the church when the blaze started .
palin spokesman bill mcallister said that palin told an assistant pastor she was sorry if the fire was related to the " undeserved negative attention " the church had received since she became the republican vice presidential candidate earlier this year .
" whatever the motives of the arsonist , the governor has faith in the scriptural passage that what was intended for evil will in some way be used for good , " mcallister added .
saturday , august 24 , 2013 .
palin appointee under federal indictment .
methinks somebody's milk just went sour .
courtesy of adn .
a 57 - year - old wasilla woman has been indicted by a federal grand jury on charges she defrauded the state of alaska and lied to the u . s . department of agriculture during the operation of the now - defunct matanuska creamery .
the indictment also charges valley dairy ceo and investor karen b . olson with concealing the alleged criminal conduct of the former dairy manager , kyle beus .
a grand jury in december indicted beus on charges he misused federal grant money , and he awaits trial .
the charges against olson allege she fraudulently obtained a $430 , 000 state agriculture department loan to keep the valley dairy afloat by concealing its finances .
the indictment also said she submitted false documents to convince the usda in 2008 to waive its prohibition on using dairy and ice cream - making equipment at valley dairy as collateral on state loans .
the equipment was purchased in 2007 using federal grants that didn " t allow the equipment to be sold or encumbered without special authorization from the usda .
alaska dispatch has more here .
by the mid - 1980s , mat maid was faltering , and a state - run corporation took over management .
it struggled until sarah palin became alaska's governor .
she arrived on the scene shortly before the state board of agriculture and conservation , which had watched the dairy bleed cash for years , voted to deny it further loans .
with that move threatening to kill the dairy , palin fired the board and appointed another , which voted to give the dairy more money .
that went on until the new board realized , as did the old board , the dairy just couldn't compete in the real world of modern - day alaska with cheaper milk shipped in from the lower 48 .
enter beus , then a valley dairy farmer , and bob havemeister , another dairy farmer .
they formed a joint venture to take over the equipment and operations of mat maid in an effort to keep it alive .
beus was the one who eventually ended up with most of the equipment and set up a company called klondike creamery and candy , which briefly marketed ice cream in alaska .
it was not long , however , before it was rolled into valley dairy - - a joint effort of beus , robert wells and olson .
olson was the former alaska state executive director of the u . s . department of agriculture farm service agency , a job she held from 1993 to 2001 .
olson has insisted in a number of interviews with alaska dispatch that the only interest she ever had was trying to keep the dairy business alive in alaska .
after she joined beus at valley dairy , the company began efforts to tap a $5 - million pool of usda money set aside for rural development .
beus was indicted last year on charges he took at least $120 , 000 of that money for his own "personal and discretionary use . " .
where and when olson learned of his alleged activities is not explained in the indictment against her , but it says she devised a scheme "to conceal the true nature of the valley dairy finances and the fraudulent activity of beus , and to obtain a loan from the arlf ( alaska revolving loan fund ) to keep the valley dairy , of which olson was an investor and employee , operating . " .
as many of you undoubtedly know there was a rather suspicious fire that burned the old matanuska maid creamery to the ground .
( i know , right ? ) .
if you are new to this particular palin scandal there is no better place to catch up then over at andrew halcro's now defunct blog .
now some are suggesting that this might finally be the straw that snaps the back of palin's uncanny ability to avoid incarceration .
however i would not count my eggs too quickly , because while it seems that olsen has every reason to reduce her sentence by ratting out her old boss , palin has somehow slipped through the grasping fingers of the feds a few times before .
so let's stay tuned and see how this plays itself out .
sarah palin 's home church has had a million dollars damage done to it as it was set alight by suspected arsonists .
no one was injured when the blaze hit the wasilla bible church .
palin has apologised if it was connected with her campaign due to " undeserved negative attention " .
the fire chief has said an investigation is underway noting that there had n't been any recent threats to the church .
authorities are unsure if there is a relevant connection between the fire and sarah palin 's campaign .
palin 's church damaged in suspicious fire .
authorities estimate the damages to the wasilla bible church at $ 1 million .
no one was injured in the fire last night , which was intentionally set while people , including two children , were inside .
the local fire chief says the fire " is definitely suspicious . " .
pastor larry kroon declined to say if the blaze was politically based or directed at palin , the failed republican vice presidential candidate .
he also declined to say whether the church has received any recent threats .
palin stopped by the church this morning .
her spokesman , bill mcallister , says palin told an assistant pastor she apologizes if the fire was connected to the " undeserved negative attention " the church has received since she became the vice presidential candidate on aug. 29 .
alaska gov. sarah palin 's home church has been badly damaged in an arson fire .
damages to the wasilla bible church are estimated at $ 1 million .
the fire chief says the fire " is definitely suspicious . " .
no one was hurt .
sarah palin 's family will have to attend church in a local school this morning after a fire ripped through her church on friday evening .
the fire , estimated to have caused $ 1 million in damages to the wasilla bible church , has been labeled " suspicious " by james steele , chief of the central mat-su fire department .
steele told the anchorage daily news that investigators are looking at the cause of the blaze as " potential arson " and said it was too early to link the fire to the exposure the church received as a result of palin 's vice-presidential run .
" right now there 's no indication that we have that there 's any connection there .
we just do n't have any leads at all as far as the intent or motive in this , " steele said .
the fire , the largest of the year for the department , " was was set at the entrance of the church " according to the associated press and was battled by firefighters for nearly eight hours before it was fully extinguished .
reports are that five women were inside the building at the time of the fire .
no one was injured .
governor palin visited the church on saturday and her office later released a statement .
" gov. palin stopped by the church this morning , and she told an assistant pastor that she apologizes if the incident is in any way connected to the undeserved negative attention the church has received since she became a vice-presidential candidate on aug. 29 .
whatever the motives of the arsonist , the governor has faith in the scriptural passage that what was intended for evil will in some way be used for good . " .
palin is in juneau today , but the anchorage daily news said her children were planning on attending services at the makeshift church .
an overnight fire friday at alaska gov. sarah palin 's home church caused an estimated $ 1 million in damage , and investigators say it could be the work of an arsonist .
firefighters were called to wasilla bible church in wasilla , alaska , about 9:40 p.m. friday and found flames and smoke coming out windows at the back of the three-story structure , said james steele , chief of the central mat-su fire department .
an arsonist has badly damaged the church attended by the governor of alaska , sarah palin , and she has apologised if the fire was connected to " undeserved negative attention " from her failed campaign as the republican vice-presidential nominee .
no one was hurt in the fire on friday night although a handful of people , including two children , were inside the wasilla bible church , said the central mat-su fire chief , james steele .
ms palin visited the church on saturday .
her spokesman , bill mcallister , said , " whatever the motives of the arsonist , the governor has faith in the scriptural passage that what was intended for evil will in some way be used for good . " .
mr steele said the blaze was being treated as arson , but he did not know of any threats to the church .
authorities also did not know whether mrs palin 's connection to the church was relevant to the fire .
" it 's hard to say at this point .
everything is just speculation , " he said .
" we have no information on intent or motive . " .
damage to the church was estimated at $ us1 million ( $ 1.52 million ) , authorities said .
mr steele said the fire was lit at the entrance and moved inward as a small group of women were working on crafts .
a fire alarm alerted them to the fire .
firefighters fought the blaze in temperatures of minus 17 degrees .
the pastor , larry kroon , declined to say whether the church had received any recent threats .
" there are so many variables , " he said .
" i do n't want to comment in that direction . " .
the 1000-member evangelical church was the subject of scrutiny after mrs palin was named john mccain 's republican party running mate .
early in her campaign , the church was criticised for promoting a focus on the family " love won out conference " in anchorage .
it promised to " help men and women dissatisfied with living homosexually understand that same-sex attractions can be overcome " .
wasilla , mrs palin 's home town , is 64 kilometres north of anchorage .
authorities suspect arson is the cause of a fire that caused an estimated $ 1 million in damage to gov. sarah palin 's church , reports this morning 's anchorage daily news .
firefighters were called to wasilla bible church about 9:40 p.m. and found flames and smoke coming out windows at the back of the three-story structure , said james steele , chief of the central mat-su fire department .
five women , and possibly a couple of children , were inside the church working on crafts , but everyone got out safely after a fire alarm alerted them to trouble , steele said .
it was the biggest fire the department has seen this year , and steele said as many as 35 to 40 volunteer firefighters came from across the region to battle the blaze .
a fire that caused more than $ 1 million in damage to alaska gov. sarah palin 's church in wasilla , alaska , may have been set by an arsonist , investigators say .
flames and smoke were coming from the wasilla bible church friday evening when as many as 30 to 40 volunteer firefighters arrived at the three-story structure , and officials said saturday they were treating the fire as a possible arson , the anchorage daily news reported sunday .
" we are definitely treating it as suspicious and as potential arson at this point , " james steele , chief of the central mat-su fire department , told the newspaper , adding nothing so far suggests any political motivation for the fire .
" right now there 's no indication that we have that there 's any connection there , " he said .
" we just do n't have any leads at all as far as the intent or motive in this . " .
" we have no idea what caused it , " the rev. larry kroon of the wasilla bible church told cnn .
palin apologized to church 's assistant pastor saturday if the fire was connected to her republican u.s. vice-presidential candidacy , a statement from her office said .
arson is suspected in the burning of the church former vice presidential candidate sarah palin attends .
she visited the church after the fire to apologize for any tie in with her recent national political exposure .
a ladies ' crafts group was meeting in the church at the time of the fire .
" we have no idea what caused it , " the rev. larry kroon of the wasilla bible church said saturday , adding that investigators were considering arson and other possible causes .
damage to the wasilla bible church was estimated at $ 1 million , authorities said saturday .
no one was injured in the fire , which was presumably set friday night while a handful of people , including two children , were inside , according to fire chief james steele .
alaska gov. sarah palin , her husband todd and up to 1,000 fellow parishioners will worship in a local school this morning after a suspicious fire virtually destroyed the wasilla bible church early saturday .
the rev. larry kroon said some parishioners were in the church on nicola avenue at the time the fire was noticed but no one was injured .
firefighters baalaska republican governor and gop vice presidential candidate sarah palin whose church was burned saturday by suspected arsonttled for about eight hours in minus-20 degree temperatures to completely extinguish the blaze that began at the front door .
the former republican vice presidential candidate went to the church saturday to apologize to pastors in case the estimated $ 1 million fire damages , suspected as arson , were " in any way connected to the undeserved negative attention the church has received " since the governor 's involvement with john mccain 's presidential campaign .
the 30-year-old congregation in wasilla , about 40 miles north of anchorage , had moved into its new church just 30 months ago .
church officials said they expect to hold services at the wasilla middle school for the foreseeable future during repairs .
a " suspicious " fire devastated the church attended by alaska gov. and former vice presidential candidate sarah palin on friday night in her hometown of wasilla , the church 's minister said .
alaska gov. sarah palin reportedly apologized for the possibility the fire was related to her nomination .
" we have no idea what caused it , " the rev .
larry kroon of the wasilla bible church said saturday , adding that investigators were considering arson and other possible causes .
a ladies ' craft group was in the building when the fire broke out , but they got out safely , kroon said .
" no one was hurt , " he said .
central mat-su fire department chief james steele said the department was " treating it as suspicious and as potential arson at this point " but did not elaborate , the anchorage daily news reported .
the newspaper said palin released a statement after the fire in which she said she stopped by the church saturday morning and offered an apology to the assistant pastor " if the incident is in any way connected to the undeserved negative attention the church has received since she became a vice presidential candidate . " .
steele said that as many as 40 firefighters from his and neighboring departments fought the blaze , which started about 9:40 p.m. friday ( 1:40 a.m. et saturday ) .
firefighters were on the scene dealing with hot spots until about 5 a.m. saturday , the anchorage daily news reported .
the metal church building , which normally accommodates sunday congregations of up to 1,000 people , was heavily damaged by flames and smoke , kroon said .
" the fire investigators and insurance people are there now .
there 's definitely a lot of damage .
i 've heard the figure of $ 1 million , but i do n't know for sure , " he said .
kroon said he was not at the church when the fire broke out and would not discuss what any of the church members who were there had reported to him .
he would not specify how many people were in the building at the time of the blaze .
" they were all adults , and they all got out .
we 're trying not to talk about specifics while investigators are still working on finding out what happened . " .
kroon said the nondenominational church , which he described as " just a local community church , " is about 30 years old and the church building itself is about 2 years old .
the pastor said church services would be held on schedule sunday in a nearby school .
gov. sarah palin 's home church was badly damaged by arson , leading ms. palin to apologize if the fire was connected to 'undeserved negative attention ' the church received during her campaign as the republican vice-presidential nominee .
damage to the wasilla bible church was estimated at $ 1 million , authorities said saturday .
no one was injured in the fire , which was set friday night while a handful of people , including two children , were inside , according to the central mat-su fire chief , james steele .
chief steele said that the blaze was being investigated as an arson but that he did not know of any recent threats to the church .
the authorities also did not know whether ms. palin 's connection to the church was relevant to the fire , he said .
chief steele would not comment on the means used to set the fire .
the church 's pastor , larry kroon , declined to say whether the church had received any recent threats .
ms. palin , who was not at the church at the time of the fire , stopped by saturday .
her spokesman , bill mcallister , said in a statement that the alaska governor told an assistant pastor she was sorry if the fire was connected to her candidacy .
" whatever the motives of the arsonist , " mr. mcallister said , " the governor has faith in the scriptural passage that what was intended for evil will in some way be used for good . " .
the 1,000-member evangelical church was the subject of intense scrutiny after ms. palin was named senator john mccain 's running mate .
early in her campaign , the church was criticized for promoting in a sunday bulletin a focus on the family " love won out conference " in anchorage .
the conference promised to " help men and women dissatisfied with living homosexually understand that same-sex attractions can be overcome . " .
the fire was set at the entrance of the church and moved inward as a small group of women were working on crafts , chief steele said .
the group was alerted to the fire by an alarm .
outside temperatures were minus 20 as firefighters battled the blaze .
arson in alaska--a palin " pattern " ?
november 20 , 2012 .
there is an old saying that " once is chance ; twice is coincidence ; the third time is a pattern .
it was probably " chance " when the wasilla bible church was burned , and arson was suspected .
it was determined that an acelerant was placed around the perimeter of the church .
no arrests were made in that fire .
the interesting part of that blaze reported that it didn " t harm the larger areas of the church where worship services were held .
instead it was , according to sarah palin , the offices where church records were stored , that was destroyed .
if there were church records that would reveal something sarah palin didn " t want uncovered , the destruction of those records by fire would solve that problem .
when arson was suspected in the burning of the house of dar miller it was probably just coincidence .
it was probably just coincidence that sarah palin is not supportive of people who are homosexual , and it appears dar was lesbian , and lived with her " partner . " .
of course it was not coincidence that dar miller was in her home when the fire broke out and was burned so badly she died the next day .
it was not coincidence that her dogs died in the fire as they lived with her .
it was unusual that the dogs died at the foot of her bed , instead of by the door , trying to get out of the house .
it was probably just coincidence that dar miller had previously worked at the mat - su regional hospital as a neo - natal nurse , which is the same hospital where trig was purportedly born .
the curious thing is that there was never an arrest made in that fire either .
the suggesting was that dar miller had probably been smoking in bed and caught herself and the bed on fire .
who made that suggestion ?
did they know that dar didn " t smoke ?
( according to ottoline commenting in this blog ) .
the fire that burned so hot that it " charred beams and melted pictures on the wall " doesn " t sound like a fire caused by a cigarette in bed .
the troubling " pattern " emerges as there is report of yet another fire in the small community of palmer alaska .
this time the fire occurred at the matanuska maid creamery .
you remember .
that dairy was the subject of a thorough investigation by andrew halcro .
andrew " s suggestion was that sarah palin had fraudulently diverted large sums of money to friends and high school buddies .
within a week of the dissolution of the last entity to run the matanuska maid creamery , its building burned to the ground .
arson is likely , given the fact that the building was without electrical or gas connections and the fire broke out at 3 : 30 am .
all three fires appear to be the result of arson .
all three fires occurred in or around the small town of alaska where sarah palin lives .
all three fires may have conferred some benefit on sarah palin .
when the church fire destroyed church records , i suspected foul play , but knew that it was probably just chance .
when dar miller " s home was burned and she was killed by the blaze , i suspected foul play , but knew that it could be merely coincidence .
now that the dairy has burned , and foul play seems clear , there is an unmistakable pattern .
given the fact that none of these crimes has been " solved , " a pattern is emerging .
i wonder how long it will be before the anchorage police department will issue a press release stating that there is not one scintilla of evidence connecting any of the members of the palin family with these cases of arson ?
gov. sarah palin 's home church has been badly damaged in a suspicious fire .
larry kroon , pastor of the wasilla bible church , estimates damages at more than $ 1 million to the church .
kroon declined to say if the blaze was politically based or directed at palin , the failed republican vice presidential candidate .
kroon says the fire broke out friday night while a small group of women were working on crafts .
they were alerted to the blaze by a fire alarm .
kroon says he was called and by the time he got to the church , smoke was pouring out of the building .
sprinklers kept the fire from spreading beyond offices and classrooms .
authorities are not immediately commenting , but kroon says he 's been told the fire is being investigated as a crime .
arson suspected in fire that destroyed alaska's mat - maid dairy .
august 7 , 2012 .
only about a week after alaska officials formally moved to dissolve the last entity to run the historic matanuska maid creamery , the historic structure which once housed part of that historic business burned to the ground in palmer .
arson is suspected .
"you can't call it arson yet , " palmer public safety director jon owen said , but the fact that the 86 - year - old structure was without electrical or gas connections makes the 3 : 30 a . m . fire highly suspicious .
"there was no lightning strike , " owen said .
it was a pretty morning in palmer when a visitor to the valley hotel walked out at 3 : 33 a . m . and spied the deserted building nearby in flames .
by the time local police arrived to investigate , owen said , there was no hope of saving the structure , and the firemen who arrived soon thereafter focused their efforts on keeping flames from spreading to a nearby fuel storage facility .
a good portion of the fire - fighting equipment in the matanuska valley was called to help , more than two dozen units .
at one time , owen said , firefighters were pouring 5 , 000 gallons of water per minute onto the blaze as history burned .
designated as national historic landmarks , the mat maid buildings dated back to the mid 1930's during president franklin d . roosevelt's "new deal" efforts to wrench the country out of the great depression .
they were built shortly after the matanuska colony was established by the roosevelt administration to relocate struggling americans and give them a new start in the last frontier .
a farmer's cooperative at first , mat maid became a state - run business that eventually died despite the best efforts of former gov . sarah palin to keep it alive .
now a conservative icon , palin was anything but in 2007 when "the creamery corporation , " an arm of the alaska board of agriculture and conservation , voted to close down a financially struggling mat maid .
palin responded by firing the board .
she then replaced board members with her cronies .
they pumped another $600 , 000 in state money into mat maid , but it didn't help .
"in july alone , they lost $300 , 000 , " said anchorage businessman and blogger andrew halcro , a sometimes critic of palin .
by the end of 2007 , it was obvious even to the palin administration that mat maid couldn't survive , and the state was forced to shut it down although "the creamery corporation" survived .
it is only now going out of business .
"dissolution of the corporation has taken four years , " robert mcfarlane , an assistant state attorney general said tuesday .
in the interim , a new creamery grew up in the matanuska - susitna valley to take the place of mat maid .
however , valley dairy inc . , seems to have many of the same problems that beset its predecessor .
creamery lacks the cheddar .
at the start of the month , valley dairy inc . , which does business as the matanuska creamery , told the agriculture board it was going to stop making payments on its hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt to the state's agriculture revolving loan fund ( arlf ) .
"we will be making no further payment on our arlf notes until we have been able to move to a suitable location and secure a minimum raw milk supply , " karen olson , president and ceo of valley dairy , notified the panel on aug . 1 .
"all our attempts to deal with our arlf loans have only resulted in a moment's reprieve following by further threats . " .
a copy of the letter has been obtained by dispatch .
in it , olson blames the state for alaska's dairy problems .
"there are some who would say that matanuska creamery has been a victim of its own idealism and commitment to keeping the dairy industry alive , " she wrote , "and they would be correct .
but had we ignored our commitment back in 2007 and since , there would be no dairy industry . " .
the problems specific to the matanuska creamery date to the two - year reign of sarah palin , but the problems for the dairy industry in alaska go back way before her administration .
they are rooted in state - sponsored efforts to create an industry instead of letting markets work .
going heavy on milk futures .
mat maid did fine "for 23 years without one single dime from the state , " halcro said .
that changed at the start of the 1980s when the state tried to supercharge farming across cook inlet from anchorage by creating the point mackenzie dairy project .
mat maid , a farmer's cooperative begun in 1936 , tried to help .
it borrowed $2 million dollars from the agriculture fund to expand its facilities to handle all the milk that was supposed to come from the farms .
when the farmers faltered , mat maid was left short of milk .
without enough milk to sell - - either as milk or cream or yogurt or cheese - - mat maid couldn't generate enough profit to service its debt .
in 1983 , it was forced to file for bankruptcy .
the state stepped in to run the company to protect its debt .
two years later , the cooperative signed over to the loan fund its property and assets to settle a $5 . 3 million debt .
three years after that , the state established the creamery corporation as an arm of the loan fund to run mat maid .
it struggled along for almost a decade .
"the creamery corporation has operated without financial assistance from the arlf since 1988 and continue to provide a return on investment thorough increased equity value , " argued a "white paper" produced for the alaska department of natural resources in 2006 .
mat maid was then valued at $5 million , down from a peak value of $5 . 3 million but above the 2002 value of $4 . 9 million .
the white paper noted efforts to privatize the operation in 1986 and again in 1990 had failed .
there were no bids .
the state was more successful in getting rid of the historic creamery buildings in palmer although that , too , was a struggle .
they were leased with an option to buy in 1996 , but that deal fell through .
a restoration company called heritage properties picked the buildings up in 1997 , and in 2001 announced plans to convert them into offices and stores , or apartments , while maintaining their historic faades .
that idea , too , fell through , and the property was finally sold at bid .
it was purchased by anchorage attorney bill ingaldson .
he was not returning calls on tuesday .
ingaldson , as well as the state division of agriculture and other property owners , have been in negotiations with the city of palmer on the sale of what is called the old "matanuska maid block . " .
it is an area of about 8 . 7 acres near downtown palmer that included , until tuesday , the old creamery , an historic hatchery , a cinderblock power house , a residency , a building housing the offices of the palmer arts council , and crowley petroleum distributors , which maintains the fuel storage facility .
palmer voters in 2010 approved a $3 million bond to pay for purchase of the property .
there were hopes of restoring the buildings as a tourist attraction .
it could have detailed the successes and failures of those sorts of collective efforts sometimes attacked by palin .
mat maid the co - op was a profitable business that once produced and sold about half the milk in alaska .
mat maid the state - owned corporation was a company that struggled from the start and sold a lot of milk produced in the lower 48 .
"in 2004 , 39 percent of the milk produced at mat maid was from alaska producers , " the white paper said .
the other 61 percent was shipped in from outside to be packaged and sold as alaska milk in an effort by mat maid to maintain market share in hopes the cows on the state - sponsored farms at point mackenzie would one day start producing .
they never really did .
over time the mackenzie properties began to shift into the hands of land speculators anticipating some far - future wealth if a bridge were ever built across knik arm to allow for creation of a new anchorage bedroom community .
'kind of a good question' .
"it's all kind of a long and complicated story going way back , " said ed fogels , the deputy commissioner of natural resources in charge of the agriculture division .
he couldn't hazard a guess on how much money the state has lost on mat maid and associated agriculture projects over the years .
"that's kind of a good question , " he said .
darcy davies , an agriculture student at the university of alaska fairbanks , in 2007 authored a senior thesis calculating money spent on agriculture projects in the state .
davies wrote that "over $76 million ( in 2006 dollars ) was spent on the projects .
even more millions of dollars were spent on the arlf loans to farmers . " .
"it is debatable , " she wrote , "whether those funds expended were worth the benefits created . " .
davies examined not only point mackenzie and mat maid , but the delta barley project and an effort to produce red meat in the nenana area of the interior .
her report notes that the point mac agriculture project got almost $10 million in direct appropriations .
it is unclear how many millions more exactly were spent propping up mat maid .
after the fire , and the pending dissolution of the creamery corporation , about all that will remain is the mat maid trademark , an ice - skating princess in a fur hat .
"the state owns that , " said fogels .
as the most durable legacy of mat maid , the trademark could prove valuable , though fogels wasn't sure how the state could use it .
maybe it could festoon the 100 , 000 pounds of matanuska creamery cheese the valley dairy put up to back one of its state loans .
sarah palin 's church in wasilla , alaska went up in flames this weekend .
the fire started friday night while a handful of people , including a women 's craft group and two children , were inside wasilla bible church .
no one was hurt .
the blaze is being investigated as an arson .
on saturday , the alaska governor said she apologizes if the incident was in any way connected to " undeserved negative attention " brought on by her failed bid for the vice presidency of the united states .
authorities believe the fire was set at the entrance of the building and moved inward before setting off a fire alarm .
damage to the church is estimated at one-million dollars .
matanuska maid dairy building burns down .
august 07 , 2012 .
the old matanuska maid dairy building in palmer was nearly destroyed by a fire early tuesday morning , according to palmer officials .
john owen , the city's public safety director , says dispatchers got a call shortly after 3 : 30 a . m . tuesday that the vacated building was on fire .
crews arrived to find flames completely engulfing the structure .
crews from both palmer fire and the mat - su central fire department responded to the blaze , using at least two ladder trucks as well as "a number" of other apparatus .
the fire was extinguished by 7 a . m . , after fire crews attacked it from all sides .
owen says the building will likely be a total loss .
no one was believed to be inside the building , and the fire marshal had been called to investigate .
providentially , nobody was injured , but an estimated one million dollars in damage was done to wasilla bible church friday night , in a fire that began while people , including children , were inside .
providentially , nobody was injured , but an estimated one million dollars in damage was done to wasilla bible church friday night , in a fire that began while people , including children , were inside .
the fire is being investigated as a possible case of arson .
this would not fit bill ayers ' definition of terrorism , since no one was killed .
more like protest that just went a little too far in a matter of mere youthful excess .
the governor of alaska has apologized if " undeserved attention " focused on wasilla bible church caused haters to set a fire there .
the american people were treated to far more media attention on sarah palin 's church than on barack obama 's involvement in corrupt illinois politics .
the congregants of wasilla bible church have our deep sympathy .
if this is arson , it is a monstrous crime .
can you imagine the media outcry if arson were suspected to have caused a million dollars worth of arson damage to trinity united church of christ ?
overnight fire destroys historic matanuska maid building .
no injuries reported .
story created : aug 7 , 2012 at 9 : 56 am akdt .
alaska - shortly after 3 : 30 tuesday morning someone called 911 to and reported a fire at the matanuska maid building in downtown palmer .
palmer fire &amp; rescue , along with the mat - su central fire department , responded .
palmer fire &amp; rescue chief john mcnutt saw flames emerging from under the building's eaves when he arrived , and soon the entire roof was engulfed in flames .
a total of 31 fire apparatus arrived to fight the fire , and it was extinguished by 6 : 40 a . m . the building is a total loss according to the city of palmer .
the state's fire marshal's office is assisting in the investigation of the cause of the fire , and anyone with knowledge of the fire is asked to call palmer police sergeant shayne la croix at 907 - 745 - 4811 .
sarah palin actually apologized after the evangelical church she attends was nearly destroyed by arsonists -- all because she still harbors guilt over her failed vp run .
officials estimated the fire caused around $ 1 million in damage to the wasilla bible church -- which sarah hoped was n't in connection to the " undeserved negative attention " from her failed campaign , according to the sun times news group .
the police have no leads at this time -- and john mccain has not been named as a suspect .
fire destroys historic mat maid dairy building in palmer .
published : august 7 , 2012 .
warehouse was one of the last original buildings remaining from the matanuska colony .
the matanuska maid block building , one of the oldest buildings in palmer , burned to the ground in a spectacular fire tuesday morning .
the wooden structure at 325 e . dahlia ave . was known as the "old mat maid warehouse . " .
it was built in 1935 , the same year that the first farm families arrived as part of the federal government's matanuska colony project .
a 911 caller reported the fire at 3 : 33 a . m .
palmer fire and rescue chief john mcnutt arrived and saw fire under the eaves of the building .
"within one minute or two , the whole roof was ablaze , " said palmer public safety director jon owen .
after a quick survey of the scene , owen said , mcnutt's main concern was keeping the fire from spreading to the heating oil stored next door at the crowley fuel distribution center .
the mat - su central fire department joined palmer firefighters with men and equipment .
photos show the entire two - story building seeming to go up in flames at once , with a ball of fire boiling into the air 20 feet above the roof .
owen said a total of 31 fire trucks , emergency vehicles and other equipment were eventually on scene .
three "aerials , " ladders with hoses , fought the fire from above , two of which were positioned between the fire and crowley .
at its height , 5 , 000 gallons of water were being poured onto the blaze every minute .
"it was a testament to the palmer water system , " owen said .
"we could have had a ( larger ) conflagration . " .
a crowley employee was at the office within minutes , said terminal manager jasper hall , ready to move the fuel delivery trucks out of harm's way .
the terminal mainly holds heating oil , he said .
by 6 : 40 a . m . the fire was under control , owen said .
by noon , small clouds of smoke still rose from the pile of ash and a few charred upright timbers teetered over the ruin .
the building , which the city of palmer had valued at about $380 , 600 , was a total loss .
anchorage lawyer william ingaldson , the building's owner , was there to inspect the damage .
he said he had owned the property for six or seven years .
he estimated the size of the structure at 12 , 000 square feet .
"none of it was insured , " he said .
"i'm assuming it's arson or vandalism . " .
there were no reports of injuries .
the building was vacant and not in use at the time of the fire .
the structure made the alaska association for historic preservation's list of 10 most endangered properties in the state for the past four years .
it was also known as the colony project warehouse because it was built as part of the federal matanuska colony project during the new deal era .
families were brought to palmer and given land .
they formed the matanuska valley farmers cooperating association .
the warehouse stored feed and other supplies for the farmers .
the matanuska colony had a mixed record .
within five years , half of the settlers gave up and left .
but dairy operations proved successful .
at a time when shipment of food from the states could take a month , valley producers supplied fresh milk to customers along the rail belt .
the co - op became the matanuska maid corporation .
in the 1950s , dairy operators fought a losing battle against the importation of reconstituted milk , which allowed powdered milk to be mixed with fresh milk and sold at a lower price .
as transportation improved , it became cheaper to ship milk from the lower 48 .
the state's point mackenzie project , designed to rescue alaska's dairy industry , turned out to be a colossal failure .
mat maid filed for bankruptcy in november 1983 .
the state took over and ran the business until economic pressures forced it to close in december 2007 .
even before then , mat maid assets were being put on the auction block or abandoned .
the trading post , also built in 1935 , is beautifully restored and still open for business as dahlia street market , on the other side of the street .
but the matanuska maid creamery building , which stood between the street and the warehouse in the old days , was burned down by teenagers in 2003 .
grass and cottonwoods now cover the site .
the long warehouse boasted a full - length porch and distinctive chevron pattern at the gable ends of the roof .
it had its own railroad siding .
three cupolas drew light into the building .
a recessed entry let workers unload wagons or trucks out of the wind .
a historical marker reads , "these buildings were the heart and economic center of palmer and the colony . " .
the old warehouse was weathered and battered on the outside , ingaldson said .
"but inside , there was all this beautiful timber .
clear , old - growth fir .
not a knot in it .
cedar tongue - and - groove floors . " .
the building still stored relics from its glory days , he said , canvas potato bags and containers for cheese products .
ingaldson said he had explored different options for developing the building , which was not being used at the time of the fire .
ideas included turning it into apartments , shops and offices for nonprofit groups or as part of a convention area .
"there were lots of really good plans we had , " he said .
"it was a historic building with lots of possibilities .
you can't replace that .
"it's devastating . " .
the state fire marshall's office is helping investigate the fire .
palmer police ask anyone with information about how the fire started to call sgt . shayne la croix at 745 - 4811 .
the church alaska gov.sarah palin attends was badly damaged by fire friday night , and investigators suspect arson .
palin , who was also the republican vice presidential candidate , apologized if the fire was in any way connected to the attention the church received during the campaign .
the fire caused more than $ 1 million in damages , the anchorage daily news reported .
firefighters were called to the blaze at around 9:40 p.m .
friday night .
the arrived to find smoke and flames coming out of the windows at the back of the three-story building .
five adult women and possibly two children were inside the church , but escaped unharmed , central mat-su fire department chief james steele told reporters .
it took about 40 volunteer firefighters to knock down the blaze , steele said .
matanuska maid building burns down .
august 7 , 2012 - 5 : 46 pm .
alaska lost part of its history on tuesday , when a pre - dawn blaze demolished the old matanuska maid dairy warehouse building in palmer .
the matanuska maid dairy building was located on the nine acre site on which stand many structures dating back to colony days .
in the afternoon sun , only charred rubble remained .
" and it " s , of course , as you can see , a total loss , " palmer public safety director jon owen said at the site of the fire tuesday .
" we have a light breeze , as you " ve noticed , has picked up .
and the breeze has ignited a hot spot over there .
we " re just making sure that the scene is safe .
our crews are going to be out here all day . " .
palmer firemen were hosing down hotspots on the rubble of the old mat maid building late tuesday , after the early morning fire demolished the antique structure in palmer " s historic district .
owen says the fire call came in at 3 : 30 a . m .
" the palmer fire chief and the palmer police arrived within a minute or two , " owen said .
" the fire chief drove around the perimeter of this nine acre city block and saw fire coming out from under the eaves of this building . " .
" within a moment or two , the entire roof was engulfed in flame . " .
owen says palmer and mat su central fire departments responded with ladder trucks , to allow firefighters to attack the blaze from above .
he says the firemen also had to protect nearby buildings .
" it " s called surround and drown , when you are fighting from the air , " owen said .
" and the big thing was we had to protect crowley petroleum , from the fire from spreading to the gas and the petroleum products that are stored at crowley petroleum , right next store here , because of the danger of an entire conflagration . " .
state fire marshall john bond surveyed the scene tuesday afternoon to help determine the cause of the fire .
not much was left of the building except some charred wooden beams and metal remnants which had plunged into the building " s basement .
the heat of the blaze was so intense it melted the paint off nearby cars .
the old building was in private ownership .
last year , palmer voters approved a bond measure allowing the city to purchase the historic district containing the mat maid building and several other wooden structures .
those plans have not been finalized yet .
owen says it will be about a month before a final determination as to the cause of the fires is known .
director owen says no injuries have been reported in the blaze .
he said there was no power or gas on in the building , nor was lightening a possible cause .
a fire that ripped through a waitrose store in surrey is being treated as " potentially suspicious " , police said .
more than 50 firefighters tackled the blaze which began on the roof of the supermarket in banstead , and residents nearby were evacuated as a precaution .
police said : " the fire progressed rapidly through the store which is almost totally destroyed .
it is being treated as potentially suspicious " .
major fire at waitrose in wellington .
july 21 , 2013 , 2 : 21 pm bst .
a large fire broke out at the waitrose supermarket in wellington town centre this morning ( july 21 ) .
fire at waitrose in wellington .
sunday , 21 july 2013 .
a fire has badly damaged the waitrose supermarket in wellington's high street .
eight crews fought the blaze which broke out in the early hours of sunday morning .
it is not known how long the store will be closed .
fire and police units are still at the scene of a fire which gutted a waitrose supermarket in surrey .
more than 50 firefighters tackled the blaze at the store in high street , banstead , which broke out on the roof at about 2045 gmt on friday .
sixty residents were moved from their homes , while premises nearby suffered smashed windows and smoke damage .
no-one was injured in the fire , which is being treated by police as " potentially suspicious " .
roads in the area were closed until about 1630 gmt on saturday .
the alarm was raised after a cctv operator noticed smoke coming from the roof .
a statement from waitrose said damage to the building had been extensive but the store would be rebuilt .
surrey police said firefighters , along with two fire tenders , and police officers would remain at the scene until monday .
21 july 2013 last updated at 11 : 11 gmt .
waitrose fire in wellington town centre tackled .
crews from devon and somerset fire and rescue have tackled a blaze at a supermarket in a somerset town .
the fire service was called at 06 : 00 bst to the waitrose store in high street , wellington , on sunday .
half the roof at the entrance of the building has collapsed but the main building is in intact with only smoke damage , fire crews said .
matt goodman , from the fire service , said : "it would appear the fire started on the outside of the building . " .
"it then quickly spread to the roof so there is a significant amount of damage to the roof , but thankfully due to the early actions of the wellington crew we could get a large weight of response to the scene .
"we've been able to prevent it spreading to other areas of the building , so the main store on the inside has got a reasonably small amount of smoke damage . " .
engineers were called to switch off the electricity supply to the building .
a spokesman for waitrose said : "luckily no - one has been hurt and we are very grateful to the fire service and police for their prompt and professional help . " .
an investigation into the cause of the fire has begun .
a waitrose store was reduced to ruins after a blaze being treated by police as " potentially suspicious " .
more than 50 firefighters with 10 fire engines fought the blaze which virtually destroyed the store in banstead , surrey .
it broke out in the roof at around 9pm on friday , forcing a number of residents living nearby to be temporarily evacuated .
a surrey police spokeswoman said : " the fire has progressed rapidly through the store which is almost totally destroyed .
it is being treated as potentially suspicious . " .
anyone with information is asked to call police on 0845 125 2222 or crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 .
23 july 2013 last updated at 13 : 42 gmt .
waitrose wellington fire : man denies arson .
a man has denied arson following a fire at a somerset supermarket early on sunday .
robert pitman , 24 , is accused of setting fire to the waitrose store in wellington shortly after 06 : 00 bst .
half of the entrance roof at the shop collapsed during the blaze .
mr pitman , of high street , wellington , entered a not guilty plea at taunton deane magistrates and was remanded in custody to appear before taunton crown court on 19 august .
police are treating a fire which has destroyed a waitrose supermarket in banstead in surrey as " potentially suspicious " .
more than 50 firefighters have been trying to control the fire which broke out in the roof of the building .
peter guest , assistant chief fire officer at surrey fire and rescue service says the building is " a total loss " .
22 july 2013 last updated at 17 : 50 gmt .
man charged with arson over waitrose fire in wellington .
a man has been charged with arson after a fire at the waitrose supermarket in wellington , somerset .
robert pitman , 24 , from the town is due to appear before taunton deane magistrates' court on tuesday .
half of the roof at the entrance of the store in the high street collapsed during the blaze , shortly after 06 : 00 bst on sunday .
no - one was injured in the fire .
the main building remains closed .
a waitrose supermarket in surrey has been destroyed in a fire .
people living near the store on high street in banstead were made to leave their homes , and surrounding roads were closed , police said .
more than 50 firefighters tackled the blaze , which broke out on the roof of the supermarket at about 2045 gmt .
assistant chief fire officer peter guest described the building as a " total loss " .
police are treating the fire as " potentially suspicious " .
" the fire grew very rapidly and there was a large explosion and the fire then grew in intensity and scale to such a point that the building would be impossible to save , " mr guest said .
" the crews have worked extremely hard ... to protect the surrounding buildings to ensure that this fire did n't spread further , but i 'm afraid the building here is a total loss . " .
mr guest added that no-one had been injured in what was a serious incident .
the alarm was raised after a cctv operator noticed smoke coming from the roof .
a surrey police spokeswoman said : " the fire has progressed rapidly through the store which is almost totally destroyed .
" people are asked to avoid the high street area if at all possible . " .
an investigation is taking place into the cause of the fire , which was still burning and being tackled by firefighters on saturday morning .
a statement from waitrose said damage to the building had been extensive but the store would be rebuilt .
" we have made available a distress fund for local residents and staff affected , and regret any inconvenience caused to them as well as the wider community and traders , " it added .
wellington supermarket fire .
a large fire has destroyed much of a supermarket in somerset .
crews were called to the waitrose building on wellington high street just after 6am .
ten fire engines were tackling the last of the blaze which began on the roof of the store in banstead , surrey , before 9 .
residents nearby were evacuated as a precaution .
a surrey police spokeswoman said tonight : " surrey police and surrey fire and rescue are currently at the scene of a large fir e at a waitrose store in high street , banstead , which is being treated as potentially suspicious . " .
" police were alerted to a fire on the roof at 8.49pm this evening .
" the fire has progressed rapidly through the store which is almost totally destroyed .
" local road closures close to the high street have been put in place and residents living close to the fire are currently being evacuated .
" around 10 fire service pumps are in attendance at the scene .
no one is believed to be injured at this time . " .
" people are asked to avoid the high street area if at all possible . " .
anyone with information is asked to call police on 0845 125 2222 or crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 .
9 : 53 am , mon 22 jul 2013 .
latest on waitrose supermarket fire .
the site manager at the waitrose supermarket in wellington that has been damaged by fire , says it will take a couple of days to assess how much work needs to be done .
residents evacuated from their homes after a huge fire at a waitrose store in banstead on friday night have been allowed to return to their homes .
around 60 people spent the evening at a local day care centre after being evacuated from their homes near the supermarket in the high street .
they were initially sent to banstead baptist church after the blaze broke out about 8.40pm .
police said they wanted to thank residents and local businesses for their patience and assistance during the evacuation .
the alarm was raised after a cctv operator noticed smoke coming from the roof of the store .
high winds meant the fire spread rapidly through the waitrose , which was almost totally destroyed .
other premises suffered some damage , such as smashed windows and smoke damage .
the fire was still burning on saturday morning .
investigators have since been sifting through the rubble to find the cause of the fire , which police have said they are treating as " potentially suspicious . " .
many nearby roads were cordoned off and police said on saturday they were likely to remain closed for some time .
anyone with any information about the fire is asked to contact surrey police on 0845 125 2222 or crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111 .
10 : 24 am , mon 22 jul 2013 .
fire at waitrose supermarket may have been arson .
police are continuing to investigate a fire at a waitrose supermarket in wellington .
staff are today turning away customers .
shoppers have been arriving at the supermarket unaware of the fire at the weekend .
police say it may have been arson .
a huge fire has almost totally destroyed a waitrose store in banstead .
fire crews and police officers were called to the high street premises shortly before 9pm on friday after a cctv operator noticed smoke coming from the building 's roof .
the blaze , which is being treated by police as " potentially suspicious " , spread quickly through the store as the flames were fanned by high winds .
sixty local residents had to be evacuated from their homes , initially to a nearby church and later to a local day care centre , but they had all been allowed to return by saturday evening .
a police spokeswoman said other premises suffered smashed windows and smoke damage .
roads around the area , including banstead high street itself , were closed for some time , but the spokeswoman said they were all reopened by 4.30pm on saturday .
she added : " the focus for today [ saturday ] has been to maximise the safety of the public , minimise disruption to the community and return normality to the area .
" surrey police would particularly like to thank the local community and those local groups and individuals who 've worked alongside the emergency services to look after the welfare of personnel and members of the community affected . " .
a statement from waitrose said : " damage to the building is extensive , however it is too early to confirm the cause .
no-one has been injured .
" the store will be rebuilt ... we will be in a position to understand how long that might take once the full extent of damage has been assessed .
" we have made available a distress fund for local residents and staff affected , and regret any inconvenience caused to them as well as the wider community and traders . " .
fire and police units were due to remain at the scene until at least monday .
anyone with any information about the fire is asked to contact surrey police on 0845 125 2222 , or call crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111 .
major fire at supermarket .
sunday , july 21 , 2013 .
fire crews from tiverton and cullompton were this morning called in to help fight a major blaze at the waitrose supermarket in wellington .
the fire has destroyed a large section of the store and fire crews and investigators are still on the scene .
two engines were sent to the store after several members of the public called emergency services at 6am .
when they arrived they called in an additional six engines , an aerial platform and an incident command vehicle .
a corner of the building measuring 50m by 50m containing food was well alight .
by 6 . 30am the fire had been contained using water and foam and police had been called .
half an hour later a second aerial platform was called in . and hydrants were being used for extra water .
police advised local residents to shut all doors and windows .
just before 8am crews requested the attendance of an incident support unit from yeovil for additional drinking water , firefighter welfare and salvage equipment .
by 8 . 30am crews were using thermal imaging cameras to identify hotspots and an investigation into the cause of the fire was under way .
a huge fire has destroyed the waitrose store in banstead high street .
the fire , which is being treated as suspicious , broke out in the roof of the store at 8.49pm on friday night and quickly spread to the rest of the building .
dozens of people were evacuated from their homes and spent the night in a nearby church and day care centre .
they began returning to their properties at 10am today , saturday .
the fire was spotted by a cctv operator who saw smoke coming from the roof of the building .
high winds meant the flames quickly spread throughout the building .
fire crews brought the blaze under control within the store late last night , but it is expected to continue burning for some hours yet .
police and firefighters remain at the scene this morning .
roads in the immediate area are expected to remain closed for a number of hours , and police have urged people to stay away from the scene .
other properties in the area suffered damage in the blaze , including broken windows .
at this stage , nobody is thought to have been injured and anybody with information is asked to call police on 0845 125 2222 .
police have thanked residents for their 'patience and assistance ' during the evacuation .
waitrose in wellington catches fire .
22 jul 2013 .
a waitrose supermarket in a somerset town caught fire yesterday ( july 21st ) , causing substantial damage to the building " s roof .
the fire service was called at approximately 06 : 00 bst to the store , which is on wellington " s high street .
upon arrival they found that the roof fire was quite significant .
fire crews from devon and somerset fire and rescue attended the scene and then called a further four appliances to help , a report from itv revealed .
they contained the fire to one corner of the roof but could not be extinguished before a part of the entrance building collapsed .
however , the main area of the one - storey supermarket was left largely intact with only smoke damage .
by about 09 : 30 bst the fire was largely out , with crews checking for hotspots .
the fire service " s matt goodman explained that the fire began on the outside of the building .
"it then quickly spread to the roof so there is a significant amount of damage to the roof , but thankfully due to the early actions of the wellington crew we could get a large weight of response to the scene , " he said .
"we've been able to prevent it spreading to other areas of the building , so the main store on the inside has got a reasonably small amount of smoke damage . " .
a spokesperson from waitrose explained that no one was hurt in the incident and was grateful to the emergency services for their quick response and effective help .
investigations into what caused the fire are ongoing .
in a bid to remove potential fire hazards , commercial buildings and non - domestic premises in england and wales are already forced to undertake a 'suitable and sufficient' fire risk assessment carried out under the regulatory reform ( fire safety ) order 2005 .
while the overwhelming majority of premises do this , if the assessment is thought to have been carried out to an insufficient extent , the responsible person can face an unlimited fine or up to two years in prison .
a supermarket in surrey has been completely destroyed after a fire broke out on friday night .
a statement from surrey police said the blaze at the waitrose store on the high street in banstead was being treated as " potentially suspicious " .
officers were alerted to the fire on the roof of the store at 20:49 gmt on friday .
the blaze then progressed rapidly through the supermarket , leaving it almost totally destroyed .
police claim that local residents have been evacuated and local road closures have been put in place .
no-one is believed to have been injured in the incident , which saw more than 50 firefighters tackle the blaze .
assistant chief fire officer peter guest admitted it was impossible to save the building due to the extent of the damage .
" the fire grew very rapidly and there was a large explosion and the fire then grew in intensity and scale to such a point that the building would be impossible to save , " he said .
" the crews have worked extremely hard ... to protect the surrounding buildings to ensure that this fire did n't spread further , but i 'm afraid the building here is a total loss . " .
police are appealing for anyone with any information relating to the fire to contact them on 0845 125 222 or crimestoppers on 0800 555111 .
breaking : man charged with arson after fire at waitrose in wellington .
monday , july 22 , 2013 .
a man has been charged on suspicion of arson following a fire that devastated a somerset supermarket .
robert pitman , aged 24 and from wellington , was charged with arson following the fire at the waitrose supermarket in the somerset town at the weekend .
he has been denied bail and will appear at taunton deane magistrates court tomorrow morning .
dozens of firefighters tackled the blaze at the supermarket after the alarm was raised at about 6am on sunday morning .
judge sentences orozco to death .
posted : 05 / 02 / 07 , 9 : 00 pm pdt | .
a norwalk superior court judge on thursday upheld a jury's recommendation that convicted cop killer jose luis orozco die for his crimes .
judge philip hickok told a packed courtroom that he weighed all the aggravating factors and mitigating circumstances in the ambush slaying of los angeles county sheriff's deputy jerry ortiz in june 2005 , and he concluded that the case "absolutely warrants death instead of life without parole . " .
orozco was convicted march 20 of first - degree murder for the slaying of ortiz , a 15 - year veteran and member of the anti - gang detail at the sheriff's lakewood station .
a jury recommended on april 3 that orozco be executed .
wearing the orange los angeles county jail - issued jumpsuit and with his handcuffed wrists chained to his waist , orozco smiled as he was led from the courtroom for the last time and turned to make an obscene gesture at a photographer .
in denying an automatic motion by the defense to reduce the jury's recommendation from death to life in prison without the possibility of parole , hickok called the slaying of the newlywed deputy and father of two "a cold - blooded , vicious murder . " .
'colossal' factors .
hickok said the aggravating factors in the case were "colossal . " .
he noted the 29 - year - old gang member not only killed the deputy while hiding outside of the lawman's view behind a door , orozco also allegedly tried to kill another man just a few days earlier by shooting that individual in the back twice , and had bragged about killing the officer .
he had also boasted prior to ortiz's killing that he wanted to kill a cop , that he wanted to make a name for his gang , the judge added .
"the murder was committed without regard in front of two extremely impressionable and young girls , " hickok said , referring to the star witnesses in the case , two sisters - 8 - and 10 - year - old girls - who described the shooting for the jury .
" ( orozco ) arranged to have witnesses , including those two very young girls , killed so that they would not testify , " hickok said .
dozens of deputies - many in uniform - packed the court for thursday's sentencing , just as they had every day of the trial .
in the center of the gallery was the slain deputy's wife , chela ortiz , who linked hands with her mother - in - law , rosa ortiz , and her husband's siblings .
chela spoke briefly before hickok made the final ruling , addressing her husband's killer directly as she read from a letter written by her stepson , jeremy ortiz , and then made her own statement .
"why did you do it ?
why did you have to stand behind a door like a coward ? " the young widow read from the teen's letter .
chela ortiz , who married the deputy three weeks before he was murdered , told orozco in a firm voice , "i want you to know you did not break our family , " as her family began to cry .
"our jerry is in heaven , we will see him again . . .
his memory will live on , " she said amid the sounds of soft sobs and sniffles .
"and you will always be remembered as a coward . " .
the 35 - year - old deputy was killed on june 24 , while investigating an attack in which orozco shot a man in the back while doing yard work at a hawaiian gardens home four days earlier .
along with murder , orozco was convicted of one count of attempted murder involving the earlier shooting and two counts of possession of a firearm by a felon .
jurors also found true the special circumstance allegations of murder of a peace officer , murder while lying in wait and murder to avoid arrest , along with the allegations that he personally discharged a handgun and committed the crimes for the benefit of a criminal street gang .
in addition to asking the judge to reduce the sentence thursday , orozco's attorneys made a motion for a new trial , arguing that the da was wrongly allowed to bring in overwhelmingly prejudicial material about orozco's gang ties .
the attorneys also argued that the defense was hamstrung when the judge refused to let them bring in the rev . gregory boyle to testify on his gang experience in the penalty phase of the trial .
they said the judge also refused to let them add jury instructions about others who could be guilty of aiding and abetting orozco .
prosecutors pointed out all those arguments had been made during the guilt or penalty phase of the trial , and the judge had already ruled in the matters .
hickok agreed and denied both motions .
'tragic situation' .
outside court , defense attorney stanley perlo said his client stands little chance at winning an appeal in the state supreme court , which he described as "very pro death . " .
in the ninth district court of appeals , there is a chance they will see that the defense was denied a key witness in the penalty phase of the trial , he said .
neither perlo nor his co - counsel , robin yanes , ever claimed their client's innocence .
their client had committed the crimes , both attorneys said thursday .
rather , they argued that the defendant's lifetime of gang membership and drug abuse were mitigating factors that could not be ignored and that should have spared him death .
they added that many of the people called to testify against their client were equally responsible for the deputy's slaying and yet were not prosecuted .
"it's a tragic situation with nothing but a sad ending .
what else could it be ? " yanes said .
asked about the pending appeal , deputy district attorney phil stirling said such cases can never be predicted , but added that he and lowell anger - the lead da on the case - were confident the conviction and sentence would stand .
after the sentencing , stirling called orozco a "predator . " .
"he is a killer .
he murdered deputy sheriff jerry ortiz , in addition to attempting to murder at least three other people that we know of , " stirling said .
orozco's death sentence will be automatically appealed to the california supreme court and he was ordered to be transferred within 10 days from county jail to san quentin state prison , where he will await his appeal on death row .
"he'll probably live a much longer , healthier life on death row than he would have on the streets , " perlo said .
thursday , june 30 , 2005 .
rip la county sheriff deputy jerry ortiz .
another peace officer has been gunned down in cold blood .
his name is los angeles county sheriff deputy jerry ortiz .
officer ortiz was knocking on doors down in the city of hawaiian gardens looking for gang members and he was shot point blank range in the head by gang member jose luis orozco .
they caught him a few doors down from where the shooting took place .
at least he didn't get a chance to flee to mexico .
i guess we can be thankful for that .
this is just another example of how hard the job that police officers have .
they truely love what they're doing because they certainly aren't in it for the money .
these guys are constantly getting shot at .
my hat is off to all the police officers around the country .
two possible gang members are under arrest for the assassination-style murder of a los angeles county sheriff 's deputy outside his house in a gang-plagued section of the city last summer , police said saturday .
guillermo hernandez , 20 , and carlos velasquez , 24 , were arrested friday and were being held without bail in a los angeles police jail , charged with killing juan abel escalante last summer , said chief of detectives charlie beck .
the suspects are members of the avenues gang , a violent group that has long claimed as its turf the low-income cypress park area northeast of dodger stadium , according to the los angeles times .
but police chief william j. bratton , eager to protect his case , would not confirm the reported gang links .
escalante was shot outside his boyhood home in the 3400 block of thorpe street in cypress park while on his way to work at the men 's central jail early aug. 2 .
bratton said escalante was loading a car seat into the family 's car when his wife , celeste , heard gun shots and saw her husband on the ground .
police earlier confirmed that escalante was shot in his head from behind and may never have seen his murderer .
bratton asked for the public 's help in providing additional information now that the suspects ' names were made public .
the city had offered a $ 75,000 in the case , and the county board of supervisors added another $ 20,000 to that pot .
at an afternoon news conference at parker center , police offered almost no details about the arrests and bratton specifically declined to confirm reports of the suspects ' gang affiliation .
a filing with the district attorney 's office was expected on monday , and officials said releasing details in advance of the filing could put the case at risk .
bratton asked anyone with information to call 877-lapd-24-7 ( 527-3247 ) .
hawaiian gardens gang member .
charged with murdering sheriff " s deputy .
july 26 , 2005 .
district attorney steve cooley announced today that capital murder charges were filed against a hawaiian gardens gang member accused of gunning down deputy luis gerardo ( jerry ) ortiz a month ago .
cooley said jose luis orozco was charged with murdering the 35 - year - old deputy on june 24 outside a hawaiian gardens apartment .
the complaint alleged three special circumstances that would make orozco eligible for the death penalty : murder of a peace officer during performance of his duties , lying in wait and murder to avoid arrest .
" deputy ortiz was killed while investigating a shooting in which the defendant was a suspect , " cooley said at a news conference at the bellflower courthouse .
" he was shot in the head and left dying on the ground while his killer ran away and tried to hide .
" law enforcement officers like deputy ortiz are the last line of defense between criminals and the law - abiding citizens they protect .
when one is killed , all of us lose .
we will not let their killers go unpunished , " the district attorney said .
orozco , 27 , was found hiding in a house a few doors away from the shooting some hours after deputy ortiz was slain .
he was arrested and remained in custody on a parole hold .
" the defendant " s custody status gave sheriff " s detectives and our prosecutors in the crimes against police officers section ( capos ) additional time to fully investigate this murder and the case on which deputy ortiz was working when he was killed , " cooley said .
" having time to do the fullest investigation possible results in a stronger criminal case . " .
orozco is scheduled to appear in bellflower superior court " s division 3 at 1 : 45 p . m . today for arraignment .
the defendant , who lives in hawaiian gardens and also is known by the street moniker of sepe , is charged in case no . va089897 filed this morning by deputy district attorney lowell anger of capos .
although filed as a capital case , the district attorney " s office will decide closer to trial whether to seek the death penalty or life in prison without the possibility of parole .
orozco is charged with one count of murder of a peace officer with the special circumstances of murder of a peace officer during performance of his duties , lying in wait and murder to avoid arrest .
it was alleged the defendant personally used a handgun to commit the crime .
the complaint also alleged two counts of possession of a firearm by a felon for the june 24 murder of ortiz and on june 20 , when a man was shot and wounded in hawaiian gardens .
it was that shooting that deputy ortiz was investigating when he was killed .
deputy ortiz was shot to death outside an apartment in the 12000 block of east 223rd street .
the deputy was with the sheriff " s gang enforcement unit and was investigating the june 20 shooting .
authorities said he spotted orozco shortly after 3 p . m . and chased him to the apartment .
the killer was hiding behind the apartment " s front door .
the defendant was arrested five buildings away on 223rd street shortly before midnight .
a . 38 - caliber revolver believed to be the murder weapon was recovered .
orozco also was charged with one count of attempted willful , deliberate , premeditated murder in connection with the june 20 shooting .
the victim was shot while doing yard work at a home in the 22000 block of joliet avenue .
he was hit in the back , but survived .
the complaint charged that the june 20 shooting was for furtherance of a street gang .
the complaint also alleged prior convictions including auto burglary , possession of a firearm by a felon and resisting and executive officer .
orozco will be held without bail .
joining cooley at the news conference was assistant sheriff doyle campbell .
two possible gang members were arrested in the fatal shooting of a sheriff 's deputy who was murdered as he was gettingready to go to work , officials announced saturday .
hawaiian gardens gangmember convicted of murdering lakewood stn . sheriff's deputy jerry ortiz .
multiple special circumstances .
add'l horrific charges ; d . a . will now seek death penalty .
( march 20 , 2007 ) - - .
a superior court jurty in norwalk today convicted a hawaiian gardens gang member of murdering l . a . county sheriff's deputy jerry ortiz in june , 2005 .
the district attorney's office says in a release that the jury found jose luis orozco , 29 , guilty of 1st degree murder , attempted murder and posession of a firearm by a felon .
it also found true special circumstances of murder of a police officer intentionally killed while performing his duties , murder to avoid arrest , street gang murder , lying in wait . . . and that orozco personally used a handgun to commit the murder and the attempted murder , the d . a . 's release says .
sheriff deputy ortiz , 35 , with lasd's gang enforcement unit , was killed june 24 , 2005 outside an apartment in the 12000 block of east 223rd street in hawaiian gardens while investigating a june 20 shooting in which orozco was a suspect .
the d . a . 's release says deputy ortiz "spotted orozco shortly after 3 p . m . the day of the shooting and chased him to the apartment .
orozco was hiding behind the apartment " s front door .
he fired at the deputy and ran .
orozco was arrested five buildings away on 223rd street shortly before midnight .
a . 38 - caliber revolver was recovered . " .
orozco was also convicted of the june 20 , 2005 attempted murder of a man shot in the back while doing yard work at a home in the 22000 block of joliet avenue in hawaiian gardens , a shooting that the jury also determined to be a street crime .
next week , the same jury will begin hearing evidence in the trial's penalty phase in which deputy d . a . lowell anger of the crimes against police officers section ( capos ) will seek the death penalty .
deputy ortiz was a lakewood award of valor winner in 2004 for having faced down an armed carjacker who drew a gun on him and his partner , ending with the death of the carjacker and the arrest of two suspected gang members .
the murder of deputy ortiz prompted an outpouring of emotion from the community , where he was respected and admired coworkers and members of the community .
this was the scene outside the lakewood sheriff's station 24 hours after his death .
dep . ortiz is the fifth lakewood sheriff deputy slain while on duty . . . and his name is now inscribed on the memorial wall outside the lasd station on clark ave .
two male gang members whose names remain unreleased were arrested last night in the case of the murder of los angeles county sheriff 's deputy juan abel escalante which took place outside his cypress park home this august 2nd as he prepared to leave for work .
according to the la times , " investigators have had a difficult time determining a motive for escalante 's killing , " however after working on the case at great length the team of detectives from both the lapd 's robbery-homicide department and the la county sheriff 's homicide bureau isolated two members of the avenues gang .
it is possible that the murder took place due to the ongoing tension between the avenues and the cypress park gang , which runs the area where escalante lived , as opposed to escalante being a specific target due to his work at the men 's central jail .
the 27-year-old escalante " was shot in the back of the head and never saw the assailants coming . " .
he had been a deputy for less than 3 years when he was murdered .
deputy sheriff .
jerry ortiz .
los angeles county sheriff's department , california .
end of watch : friday , june 24 , 2005 .
deputy jerry ortiz was shot and killed after knocking on a door during an investigation .
deputy ortiz had gone to an apartment complex in the city of hawaiian gardens to question a woman about a shooting that had taken place the previous day .
as he spoke to the woman at the door of the apartment , the suspect in the previous day's shooting appeared and shot him in the head .
the man then fled into an apartment three doors away .
deputies found him hiding in a bathtub three hours later .
the suspect , who was on parole and had prior arrests for convictions for assault with a deadly weapon , resisting arrest , burglary , as well as for gun and drug crimes , was charged with first degree murder and faces the death penalty .
in april 2007 the suspect was found guilty of capital murder and sentenced to death .
six months prior to this incident , deputy ortiz's brother - in - law , corrections officer manuel a . gonzalez , of the california department of corrections , was stabbed to death by a gang member inmate at california institution for men in chino .
deputy ortiz had served with the los angeles county sheriff's department for 15 years and was assigned to the anti - gang unit .
he is survived by his wife , two sons , and mother .
he is buried in calvary cemetery , los angeles , california .
a los angeles county sheriff's department deputy -- a recently married father of two sons -- died after a shooting friday afternoon in hawaiian gardens , according to the sheriff's department .
gunfire was reported at about 3 p . m . in the hawaiian gardens area during an operation involving a uniformed gang enforcement deputy identified as los angeles county sheriff's deputy jerry ortiz , according to sheriff's officials .
the location is about 10 blocks east of the 605 freeway .
authorities said a witness called 911 to report the shooting , which occurred after ortiz knocked on the residence's door , according to the sheriff's department .
ortiz was shot in the head , said larry waldie of the sheriff's department .
he was transported in a helicopter to ucla - medical center .
as of 11 p . m . authorities were still searching for jose luis orozco , 27 , who is considered armed and dangerous .
he is 5 - feet - 8 inches tall , weighing 130 pounds , has a shaved head and is heavily tattooed .
he was wearing knee - length shorts with white tennis shoes , according to the sheriff's department .
ortiz , 35 , was a 15 - year member of the sheriff's department .
he had been working with the gang enforcement team for the last five years .
sheriff's department officials initially reported that a second deputy was shot , but authorities later said the responding deputy's injuries were not caused by gunfire .
sheriff's officials said the second deputy was injured when he fell .
that deputy was hospitalized at tri - cities hospital .
a swat unit was dispatched to the area near carson street and norwalk boulevard .
deputies and at least one canine unit also were at the scene .
authorities said they believe they know the identity of the shooter but no suspects have been taken into custody .
update .
a suspect has been arrested in connection with the killing of a los angeles county sheriff's deputy conducting a follow - up investigation in a gang case , authorities said today .
jose luis orozco was arrested just before midnight yesterday , near where the shooting ocurred in hawaiian gardens , los angeles county sheriff's sgt . don manumaleuna said .
no shots were fired when orozco was taken into custody , he added .
gunman kills l . a . deputy on gang duty .
june 25 , 2005 .
a los angeles county sheriff's deputy interviewing a woman and a man outside a hawaiian gardens apartment was fatally shot friday when a gunman burst out of the residence , put a handgun to the officer's face and fired , authorities said .
sheriff's deputies fanned out across hawaiian gardens late friday in search of the gunman , who apparently surprised deputy jerry ortiz , 35 , as he spoke to the woman in the doorway of her apartment .
authorities said ortiz probably died instantly .
"this was an assassination of a deputy , " sheriff lee baca said .
"it was a sudden attack that gave the deputy no chance . " .
deputies identified the suspect as jose luis orozco , 27 , a parolee wanted on suspicion of attempted murder in another case .
"he should be considered armed and very dangerous , " said sheriff's spokesman steve whitmore .
deputies said that orozco is 5 - foot - 8 , 135 pounds , with tattoos of "devil's horns" on his forehead and other tattoos over his upper body .
they said he is a gang member known by the nickname "sepy . " .
ortiz , who had hoped to become a detective soon , had worked for the sheriff's department for 15 years and was known as an extremely hard worker whose job was to penetrate the inner workings of local gangs .
the diamond bar resident was married two weeks ago to his second wife , chela .
he is also survived by two sons , ages 6 and 16 .
last year , ortiz won the department's medal of honor after he fatally shot a carjacker who drew a gun on him and his partner , det . colin orpe .
"he was an outstanding person , who would go out of his way to help people , " said orpe , a longtime friend .
"we're all mourning , " he said , choking back tears .
the shooting occurred about 3 : 10 p . m . in the 12200 block of 223rd street in hawaiian gardens , a working - class city at the northeastern border of long beach that has long been plagued by gang violence .
the town of 14 , 000 has struggled economically in recent years , luring a casino to help balance its shaky finances .
ortiz's body was discovered by residents who heard the gunfire .
they tried to aid the deputy and dialed 911 , authorities said .
ortiz was working without his longtime partner at the time of the attack .
undersheriff larry waldie said ortiz had arrived for work early , as he often did , and was so eager to begin his day that he struck out on his own .
"he didn't want to wait , " waldie said .
asked if ortiz might have lived had his partner been with him , waldie said there was no way to know .
"there might have been two people killed , " he said .
the shooting was followed by confusion as scores of deputies descended on the area with dogs and rifles but little knowledge of what had occurred .
a sheriff's swat team encircled the apartment complex where it was believed that the gunman could be hiding .
patrol deputies detained as many as nine potential witnesses and others in an effort to learn details of the shooting .
nearly all of them were rounded up in a liquor store next to the apartment complex .
television news footage showed the men and women sitting on the curb in handcuffs as deputies interviewed them and swabbed their hands for possible gunshot residue .
deputy's killer gets death sentence .
the gang member shot jerry ortiz outside a hawaiian gardens building in 2005 .
april 04 , 2007 .
a norwalk jury on tuesday ordered execution for a gang member convicted of murdering a los angeles county sheriff's deputy in june 2005 .
deputy luis gerardo "jerry" ortiz , 35 , was shot outside a hawaiian gardens apartment building while investigating jose luis orozco in connection with another shooting .
orozco , 29 , was found guilty by the same jury last month of first - degree murder with the special circumstances of murder of a police officer and possession of a firearm by a felon .
"this is the kind of person and the kind of crime that the death penalty was made for , " said dist . atty . steve cooley .
sheriff's deputy timothy brennan , who had been ortiz's partner for a year , called the verdict bittersweet .
he explained , "you feel good , but it's never going to bring jerry back to his family and friends . " .
orozco is to be formally sentenced may 3 by judge philip h . hickock .
stanley perlo , one of orozco's lawyers , said his client grew up "in a gang - infested area .
for all intents and purposes , the gang became his family . " .
perlo said orozco was consumed by gang life in much the same way one is addicted to drugs , affecting his judgment .
a 15 - year department veteran , ortiz had hoped to become a detective .
he had married two weeks before the shooting , and had won a department medal of honor for fatally shooting a suspected carjacker who had pulled a gun on him and his partner .
the jury reached its verdict in less than a day .
jurors on monday asked to review a video recording of orozco boasting about the shooting to other jail inmates two weeks after ortiz's death .
the recording , which was presented during the trial , showed orozco talking about his appearance on the "america's most wanted" television show .
deputy's alleged killer held .
a 27 - year - old parolee is found 'cowering in a bathtub' near the house where jerry ortiz had been shot in the head a few hours earlier .
june 26 , 2005 .
before he was fatally shot , los angeles county sheriff's deputy jerry ortiz was looking for a man considered to be a "career criminal" and was hoping to arrest him on suspicion of attempted murder , officials said saturday .
that man , jose luis orozco , is now the main suspect in the friday afternoon slaying of ortiz in hawaiian gardens .
orozco was arrested around midnight friday by a sheriff's swat team , three houses from the scene of the fatal shooting .
he was found "cowering in a bathtub , " sheriff lee baca said .
ortiz , a gang enforcement officer , was searching for orozco because he was a suspect in a shooting that occurred in the neighborhood monday , said sheriff's capt . ray peavy , a homicide investigator .
orozco , 27 , a known gang member , was also suspected of violating parole after serving time for a weapons violation , peavy said .
ortiz , 35 , was on his own about 3 p . m . friday when he went to a house in hawaiian gardens , a working - class city at the northeast border of long beach with long - standing gang problems .
peavy said the specific reason for ortiz's visit was unknown but he provided a few details about the encounter : a woman answered the door and a man walked up behind her .
ortiz asked the man for some identification and was checking it when orozco appeared from inside the house .
he shot ortiz once in the head and fled , peavy said .
dozens of law enforcement officers worked the case through the afternoon and into the night , fanning out around the 12200 block of 223rd street and questioning residents .
deputies believed they knew where orozco was hiding and obtained a search warrant .
a handgun was recovered during the arrest , peavy said .
orozco , who was booked on suspicion of violating his parole , is being held without bail .
los angeles county dist . atty . steve cooley said he expected orozco to be charged with first - degree murder of a peace officer , which means he could receive the death penalty if he is convicted .
peavy could not say what orozco was doing in the house , but said he had been living on the street and sleeping in different places .
baca , who had been in kentucky for a meeting of the national sheriffs' assn . , returned to los angeles for a news conference held saturday with cooley and los angeles mayor - elect antonio villaraigosa .
baca praised the work of his investigators , but the arrest seemed to do little to quell his anger .
he called orozco "the scum of the earth" and an "idiot , " pointing to a photo of the suspect and the "devil horns" tattooed on his bald head .
cooley unfurled a long trail of printer paper that baca said contained orozco's criminal record , including drug and weapon violations , resisting arrest , burglary and assault with a deadly weapon .
the sheriff contrasted the suspect's life with that of ortiz , a 15 - year department veteran .
ortiz "not only exemplified the best of what we have , but took it upon himself to work in the toughest job that we also have - - and that is trying to do something about this out - of - control gang problem in los angeles county , " baca said .
baca urged everyone in southern california to pay more attention to the gang problem .
he called for broader prevention initiatives , lamented the lack of resources in his department and urged parents to get involved in the lives of their children .
cooley said the fact that orozco hadn't been in contact with his parole officer since january was a "failure" of the system , but he did not elaborate .
undersheriff larry waldie said that ortiz set out without a partner friday because he had arrived early and was eager to get to work .
peavy said ortiz usually partnered with one of two deputies , but both had the day off .
instead , ortiz had planned to partner with his sergeant .
but he apparently decided to visit the house first .
peavy noted that such solo work is not a violation of department policy .
ortiz , of diamond bar , was an army veteran and the father of two boys , ages 6 and 16 .
he was married for the second time about two weeks ago .
his family declined a request for an interview saturday through a sheriff's spokesman .
but colleagues described him as someone who lived for police work and was a "fanatic" about boxing .
he fought on the sheriff's boxing team and trained recruits and deputies in hand - to - hand combat .
lt . bob rifkin of operation safe streets , the department's gang unit , said ortiz became interested in the gang problem while working as a patrol officer from 1996 to 2000 .
he joined the gang unit in 2001 after passing a background check and written exam that tested his knowledge of gang culture .
ortiz won numerous commendations for his work .
last year , he was awarded the city of lakewood's medal of valor after he fatally shot a carjacker who drew a gun on him and his partner .
"jerry was 35 years old and had more motivation than a 21 - year - old just getting on the department , " rifkin said .
"he always wanted to go toward the action and that's what jerry was respected for . " .
baca noted that ortiz's family has had "tremendous tragedies when it comes to those members who've been in law enforcement . " .
in january , ortiz's brother - in - law , manuel a . gonzalez , was stabbed to death while working as a corrections officer at a state prison in chino .
the alleged killer , jon christopher blaylock , was serving a life sentence for the attempted murder of a police officer .
sheriff " s deputy shot and killed .
june 24 , 2005 .
a 35 - year - old sheriff " s deputy working with an anti - gang unit was killed friday when he knocked on the door of a home and someone shot him in the head , authorities said .
deputy jerry ortiz had gone to the home to speak to a woman there as part of a gang investigation when he was attacked , undersheriff larry waldie told reporters friday night .
ortiz probably died instantly , waldie said .
" someone came out either nearby or from the residence and put a bullet through his head , " waldie said .
los angeles county sheriff lee baca , who was out of state attending a convention , made plans to return to southern california immediately .
the deputy , who was wed about three weeks ago , is survived by his wife and two sons , ages 16 and 6 , waldie said .
he was a 15 - year veteran of the department and had been a member of its anti - gang unit for the past five years .
authorities said they believe they know the identity of the shooter , although the person was not immediately taken into custody .
deputies cordoned off streets in the neighborhood and were searching for the suspect friday night .
a passer - by who found the wounded deputy shortly after 3 p . m . called the lakewood sheriff " s station to report the shooting , said sheriff " s sgt . vanette christiansen .
" our lakewood units responded out and in fact we found a deputy who works our gang enforcement team who had gunshot wounds , " she said .
another deputy fell and suffered a minor injury responding to the crime scene .
death for orozco .
posted : 04 / 02 / 07 , 9 : 00 pm pdt | .
a convicted cop killer laughed tuesday after hearing a jury's ruling that he be put to death .
jose luis orozco showed almost no emotion throughout the three - week trial in which he was convicted of the 2005 murder of los angeles county sheriff's deputy jerry ortiz .
a rare exception for the 29 - year - old hawaiian gardens gang member was an occasional smile for his mother when he turned in his chair to glance back at her from time to time .
he will be sentenced may 3 .
when the jury convicted him last month of the deputy's slaying , as well as the attempted murder of another man just a few days prior to the ambush killing of ortiz , orozco sat staring straight ahead , unflinching .
as court clerk dan fallon read the jury's sentence shortly before noon tuesday , several members of the slain lawman's family gasped , clutching one another's hands .
at the same time , a small smile spread across orozco's face and he chuckled .
"we understand and we appreciate the gravity of the decision that the jury had to make . . . , and that it took a lot for them to ( come to that decision ) , " chela ortiz , the deputy's wife , said afterward .
"we appreciate everything they did , we know they were very careful . . . and gave this a lot of their attention . " .
chela ortiz - who was married three weeks before her husband was murdered - sat with her mother in - law , rosa ortiz , and the rest of the family every day of the trial .
they were accompanied by dozens of sheriff's deputies and other family friends , including the family's priest .
most days were difficult and filled with tears as they listened to chilling testimony recounting the last few minutes of ortiz's life and saw , for the first time , the crime scene and autopsy photos .
"i think , for all of us , it was kind of reliving the nightmare all over , " chela ortiz said .
family members listened to testimony that included the defendant's violent past and the many times he escaped prosecution by using his gang's influence and power to intimidate victims - including two nearly killed when they were shot and stabbed in the back by orozco , according to prosecutors .
orozco's friends and fellow gang members also recalled his boasting about killing a cop one day .
"i just say thank god it is over , " the deputy's mother , rosa ortiz , said .
"it was too much some days . . .
to me it was too hard . " .
it took the jury of six men and six women a little more than four hours , spread over two days , to choose death over life in prison without the possibility of parole .
it was almost the same amount of time used to come to the guilty verdict on march 20 .
according to three jurors who spoke briefly outside the courtroom , the decision was a difficult one made slightly easier by the thorough job of the prosecutors and investigators .
none of them wanted to be identified because of the gang ties to the case .
the physical evidence , which including orozco's dna and fingerprints found on the murder weapon , was overwhelming , they said .
there were also a number of eye witnesses including two girls who described for the jury how orozco hid behind their front door and shot the deputy as ortiz spoke with their mother .
equally as damning , jurors said , was the complete lack of remorse shown by the defendant .
he squandered two opportunities to turn his life around , including chances to relocate out of state and away from the gang with his family in las vegas and again with a friend and former gang member in florida , they said .
it looked to them as though he preferred the life of a criminal and reveled in the notoriety he earned in the deputy's death .
a taped conversation between orozco and two friends - one a fellow gang member and the other an associate - in a holding cell at the bellflower courthouse made it clear to the jury that a life in prison would not diminish his threat to society , they said .
in that tape , orozco is heard talking about destroying evidence and ordering a hit on the two little girls and their mother - the star witnesses in the case .
"i had to hear that tape again , " one juror said .
"because if we were going to send him to jail for life , he could run the same business from behind bars , " a second juror added .
"this way he can't harm anyone anymore . " .
apartment murder .
ortiz was assigned to track orozco down the day before his june 24 , 2005 murder .
that task stemmed from the june 20 , 2005 shooting of a black man who - according to prosecutors - orozco tried to kill simply because of his race .
the 15 - year veteran , who learned the day before that he had made the rank of detective , was patrolling in hawaiian gardens near 223rd street when he spotted orozco and tried to stop him .
the gang member took off running with ortiz behind him , according to court testimony .
ortiz followed orozco to an apartment complex in the 12500 block of east 223rd street , to the home of one of orozco's friends whom the deputy knew from previous altercations , at about 3 : 30 p . m .
what ortiz didn't know was that orozco was lurking behind the woman's front door .
as ortiz spoke to her and reholstered his weapon , orozco steadied his hand while two of the woman's children - girls age 6 and 8 - and several of her friends looked on .
he fired just one shot from his . 38 - caliber revolver , with the slug passing through a crack in the door and hitting the deputy in the side of the head .
the 35 - year - old newlywed and father to two boys died almost immediately .
tactical decision .
stan perlo , one of two court - appointed defense attorneys assigned to orozco , said the defendant's lack of support from his family dealt a massive blow to their case .
originally , orozco's mother was to take the stand to tell her son's story and talk about the many problems he faced growing up , perlo said .
but she became nervous , telling her son the night before she was to testify that she did not want to go through with it , perlo explained .
orozco agreed not to force his mother to have to take the witness stand , a decision that likely destroyed his chance at any mercy on the part of the jury , he said .
"our problem was we had no one to tell his story , " perlo said .
"we were counting on his mom and . . . she was too nervous to testify . " .
perlo and co - counsel robin yanes approached orozco's case from a somewhat unorthodox position .
rather than argue their client's innocence , they repeatedly referred to their client as the gunman in the presence of the jury and focused on a number of other people they claimed were equally responsible in the crime .
it was a tactical decision reached by the two veteran attorneys , both with extensive experience with death penalty cases , and after consultation with their peers , perlo explained .
"we made a lot of decisions that some lawyers would disagree with , " he said .
"i would add , personally , a lot of lawyers with a lot less experience . " .
long process .
when orozco returns to court on may 3 , perlo and yanes will argue for a mistrial and , if that is rejected , will ask judge philip hickok to modify the jury's verdict and consider life without parole .
the chance either argument will be successful is slight , perlo said .
but that then sets into motion the automatic appeals process , something that will be handled by a different set of attorneys .
during that time , orozco will not be housed with the general population , he will have a cell all his own giving him isolation from much of the gang violence in the state's prisons .
at the very least , perlo estimated the appeals process will last five years .
it could run into 20 years because there are both state and federal requirements that must be met , he added .
a large part of the problem stems from finding lawyers who are available for such a lengthy commitment of time , who are willing to take on a stressful job and who are qualified , perlo said .
"the decision today made the family happy , but unfortunately it's a false happiness , " perlo said after court tuesday .
"i've dealt with issues of death for many years . . .
the death penalty rarely offers . . . closure . " .
the ortiz family , however , disagreed .
"i'm kind of relieved that it's over , " said 17 - year - old jeremy ortiz , one of the deputy's sons from a previous marriage .
"i'm happy with the verdict , we just have to wait it out now . " .
prior to the reading of the verdict , the deputy's family and friends waited in a courtroom filled to capacity but so quiet one could could hear the slight squeaks of the attorneys' leather chairs .
some bowed their heads and rubbed their faces , while others clasped their hands as though in prayer .
when the sentence was finally announced a collective gasp for air was followed by cries and sobs as relatives sitting behind the family leaned forward to rub their shoulders and give a comforting squeeze .
outside the courtroom , rosa ortiz took out a button with a laminated picture of her slain son in uniform and handed it to the eldest of her five children , art ortiz , so that he could pin it on her blouse .
once it was secure she kissed it tenderly .
for many minutes afterward , relatives and friends stood outside the courtroom hugging and crying .
detective dawn retzlaff , one of the two lead homicide detectives on the case , said authorities were grateful for the jury's thorough and careful review of the facts and investigators were happy with the verdict , calling it just .
speaking on behalf of the sheriff's department , retzlaff added that they wanted to express their condolences to ortiz's family in what was a devastating time .
"it's not a happy day for anybody , " said deputy district attorney lowell anger , who prosecuted the case along with fellow da phillip stirling .
anger said that the message sent by the jury's sentence - that killing a police officer and flaunting all respect for authority and for life will not be tolerated - was clear .
it was the constant support from anger , stirling and the district attorney's office , from the sheriff's department and other law enforcement agencies , and from the family's large circle of friends that made the tumultuous trial more bearable , chela and her in - laws insisted .
"we could never repay them for all the support and love they have for this family , and that they have for jerry , " chela said .
a vancouver man has been charged with first-degree murder after a killing at an office party .
police allege eric allen kirkpatrick , 61 , opened fire at a vancouver office christmas party friday , killing one man .
const. tim fanning told a news conference today a man walked into the party with a firearm and shot one person dead immediately .
police have identified the victim as benjamin david banky , 40 , of vancouver .
twelve other people managed to leave the office while police began two hours of negotiations with a suspect .
fanning says the incident was extremely traumatic for witnesses .
detroit office shooter charged with murder , attempted murder .
published april 11 , 2007 .
a man fired four days earlier from his job as an accountant walked into his old office , passed by the receptionist and made his way to a manager's office with the purpose of killing him with a shotgun , a police sergeant said wednesday during the man's arraignment .
when monday's violence had concluded , the receptionist - - madeline kafoury - - was shot dead and two managers , paul riva and alan steinberg , were wounded .
steinberg was shot in the hip and has spoken to police about the attack , while riva had not yet regained consciousness and was on a ventilator .
the man accused of shooting his three former co - workers is anthony lacalamita iii , a 38 - year - old troy resident who was fired from gordon advisors on thursday .
a not guilty plea was entered on lacalamita's behalf during wednesday's hearing .
lacalamita is charged with first - degree murder in the death of kafoury , 63 , of warren .
he also is charged with two counts of intent to murder in the shootings of riva , 47 , of sterling heights , and steinberg , 48 , of macomb county's bruce township - - as well as three counts of possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony and one count of fleeing and eluding police .
lacalamita was asked by judge michael a . martone if he understood the charges against him and if he was aware that he could be sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole if convicted of first - degree murder .
he responded , "yes , " to the series of questions posed by martone .
the judge ordered him held without bond pending his next court hearing april 19 .
kafoury's loved ones attended wednesday's arraignment , and her daughter , charlene - - holding a picture of kafoury - - sobbed loudly during the proceedings .
"she didn't do it .
she didn't fire him , " charlene kafoury said .
lacalamita sat nearby and did not react to the comments from the victim's daughter .
after the hearing , charlene kafoury and other loved ones gathered for a news conference .
"she wasn't just a receptionist . . . .
she was our mom and the grandmother of our children , " said charlie kafoury , charlene's brother .
"she was an essential point of our lives , " said a tearful charlie kafoury , who had difficulty getting out his words .
a number of loved ones stood behind him and cried audibly .
they engaged in a group hug after the news conference .
troy police sgt . barry whiteside said lacalamita first stopped at the reception area after 10 a . m . on monday and talked to kafoury , then entered steinberg's office and asked him twice if he wanted to be shot .
steinberg told police he thought lacalamita was holding a toy gun .
"he didn't think it was real until he saw the shotgun was being racked , " whiteside said .
after shooting steinberg , whiteside said lacalamita walked down the hall and into riva's office .
kafoury , who was standing in the doorway of riva's office , was struck in her midsection , whiteside said .
she fell to the floor and died from her wounds , he said .
lacalamita then fired one round at riva , who was struck in the upper chest area .
riva tried to step over kafoury and collapsed in the hall , whiteside said .
police said lacalamita targeted the two managers and also may have intended to shoot another one .
"there is a suspicion that there might have been a third upper management official he was seeking , " said troy police lt . gerry scherlinck .
the man , whom police did not identify , was not in the office suite at the time of the attack .
police said the shotgun was armed with buckshot that contained nine pellets in each shot .
some of the pellets hit the victims and some did not , police said .
lacalamita was fired from his position as a general accountant last thursday because of poor performance , police said .
according to receipts police recovered from his apartment , lacalamita purchased the shotgun around 3 : 45 p . m . on friday .
lacalamita was denied a handgun permit in march , said scherlinck , who would not say why the permit was denied .
lacalamita was arrested monday afternoon after leading police on a chase north along interstate 75 in genesee county in which speeds reached 120 mph .
a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three live shells were found in the silver ford fusion lacalamita was driving .
police said they found a long , cardboard box consistent to one that would hold a shotgun , as well as empty shell boxes , in a dumpster outside lacalamita's apartment during a search monday evening .
a former employee recently let go from his job opened fire at an office christmas party yesterday , killing one person .
vancouver police say the disgruntled man burst into the workplace during the party and opened fire .
" the suspect , a 61-year-old man , entered the business , which had at least a dozen people inside enjoying a christmas party , " police said in a statement .
police const. tim fanning said the gunman came in around 4 p.m. local time .
one man was shot and killed but the other partygoers managed to escape and no one else was injured .
" police locked down the neighbourhood and negotiated with the suspect , who gave himself up to police just after 6 p.m. , " fanning said in the statement .
the business at the location of the shooting is listed at tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
state police say a bomb exploded at an oregon bank after it was evacuated and at least one bomb technician was injured .
theoregonian newspaper quotes a federal spokesman confirming that a bomb detonated at west coast bank in woodburn .
the spokesman for the bureau of alcohol , tobacco , firearms and explosives also said at least one bomb technician had been injured .
theoregonianreports the bank had been evacuated before the bomb detonated .
sacked worker shoots ex - colleagues .
april 10 , 2007 - 7 : 07am .
a man suspected of shooting three people , killing one , at a suburban detroit accounting firm from which he was fired last week was arrested after a high - speed chase a few hours after the attack this morning , authorities said .
police said they had located anthony lacalamita , 38 , on the interstate 75 highway , north of the office building where the shootings took place .
sheriff's deputies and state police chased him for 48km , including through a construction zone , at speeds up to 193km / h before he finally pulled over after about 15 minutes , genesee county sheriff robert j pickell said .
"he probably realised if he didn't , he was going to be shot , " undersheriff james gage said .
lacalamita said nothing after officers surrounded him , pickell said , describing the suspect as "subdued .
very , very , very subdued" .
officers found a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three live shells in the vehicle , pickell said .
witnesses said the shooter used a shotgun or a rifle , troy police lieutenant gerry scherlinck said .
some witnesses told police that when the shooter walked into the office on the building's second floor at about 10am today , he looked as if he was trying to hide something , troy police chief charles craft said .
police could not say how many shots were fired .
"i'm not positive all three of the people were targeted , but there appeared to be some purpose , " craft said .
the families of the two wounded men requested "total privacy" , and the hospital would not release any details about their conditions , beaumont hospital spokeswoman ilene wolfe said .
she said the third victim died on the way to the hospital .
lacalamita was listed among the professional staff on the website of gordon advisers , a public accounting and business consulting firm in the building .
calls to gordon advisers were not answered this afternoon , and a recording said the offices were closed .
the 15 , 800 - square - metre building houses a number of businesses , including law offices and the accounting firm .
police at first told workers to stay in their offices but a short time later evacuated the building , about 24km north of detroit .
bill adgate , who works at lpl financial inside the building , said he had hunkered down inside the office for a couple of hours with furniture pushed up against the door .
he said police told the group to stay put until officers allowed them to leave .
"it's tough .
i want to get out , " adgate said by telephone .
employees at a vancouver wholesaler were coping saturday with the death of their boss , who was gunned down at their office christmas party .
a man facing murder charges in a christmas party shooting was on suicide watch monday as friends and family of paid glowing tribute to his alleged victim .
those who knew benjamin david banky , 40 , were still in shock three days after he was gunned down during what was supposed to be a christmas celebration at his office .
his accused killer , eric kirkpatrick , made a brief appearance in vancouver provincial court monday on a charge of first-degree murder .
banky was ceo of tallgrass distribution ltd. , a wholesaler of natural health products , which remained closed monday .
" he was incredibly bright , a very caring person and incredibly family-oriented , " said nancy o'higgins , a longtime family friend .
o'higgins and her husband eric , both retired journalists , knew ben as a baby because they worked in the media in ontario with ben 's father jake before both families moved west , six months apart .
the o'higgins ' attended ben 's wedding a couple of years ago on hornby island , one of the gulf islands where his parents now live .
" they were n't married very long , just a couple of years . " .
she said ben and his wife grew up as neighbours on hornby island .
" that was how ben and linda knew each other . " .
ben attended school in his early years in white rock but got most of his education in victoria where his father worked for broadcast news , which is now the canadian press .
she said he travelled to china for awhile , where he studied mandarin and was quite fluent .
" i was so incredibly impressed that he spoke mandarin that that really stuck in my head , " said o'higgins .
john banky , ben 's older brother , spoke briefly from the parents ' home monday , alluding to his brother 's musical abilities .
" he spoke a few languages and could play any instrument made by man , " said his brother .
while the family tried to deal with the loss , kirkpatrick made a brief appearance in court .
his lawyer , richard fowler , told the court his client is on suicide watch at the north fraser pretrial centre in port coquitlam .
fowler described conditions at the centre as unacceptable , saying his client is double-bunked with a man who is withdrawing from a drug addiction and the cell is cold .
much of b.c. is in the grips of a cold spell , with unusually cold temperatures in the vancouver area that are well below freezing .
kirkpatrick , who has long grey hair flowing down to his shoulders and a long grey beard , was dressed in red , prison-issue coveralls .
he stood quietly in the prisoner 's box listening to the proceedings .
the sixty-one-year-old was arrested friday , not long after banky was shot to death .
outside court , fowler said kirkpatrick is " not doing very well . " .
" he is placed in a double bunk with somebody who is withdrawing from drugs .
he can not sleep .
it 's freezing cold .
the problem is that these institutions are too full . " .
" he 's presumed innocent and he should be treated better . " .
lon wood , another retired victoria journalist who knew ben 's father from their days working in victoria , said he met ben and the other children through their parents .
" they are a very close family . " .
john paul fraser of national public relations , which is working for tallgrass , said the family is not speaking publicly yet .
at a weekend news conference , city police spokesman const .
tim fanning said kirkpatrick had been let go from tallgrass on thursday .
fanning did n't know how long the suspect had worked at the business .
the other people at the office party were able to escape without injury , fanning said .
" the shock was tremendous but all the other people in the business - and a dozen other people who were there for a christmas party - managed to get out safely , " fanning said .
the shocked party-goers were put on buses and taken to police headquarters where witness statements were taken , he said .
he said counsellors have been made available to them .
a former employee who opened fire at an office christmas party and killed one man has been charged with first-degree murder , police said saturday .
constable tim fanning allege the recently- fired man , eric allen kirkpatrick , 61 , opened fire at a vancouver office friday , killing benjamin david banky , 40 .
fanning said the gunman entered the party of at least a dozen people around 4 p.m .
one man was shot and killed but the other partygoers managed to escape and no one else was injured .
" police 'locked down ' the neighborhood and negotiated with the suspect , who gave himself up to police just after 6 p.m. , " fanning said in a statement .
the business at the location of the shooting is listed as tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
luke pigeon , who lives in an apartment building next door , said he did n't hear a gunshot but heard noise outside his window .
" it was n't typical , crazy noise that sometimes happens .
you got the feeling there was something definitely , definitely wrong , " pigeon told the canadian press .
he looked out his window and saw someone fleeing the building next door .
" all of a sudden in my front yard there were five totally decked out , geared up riot squad officers with guns out of the holster , aiming at the second floor of the building right beside us , " pigeon said .
after two hours , he said , the gunman gave himself up and police cuffed him .
one man is dead after being shot by a gunman who marched into a company christmas party friday night .
vancouver police have arrested a 61-year-old former employee after the shooting at tallgrass distributors ltd. , an organic supplements and health product store in the mount pleasant neighbourhood near downtown vancouver .
" a man who apparently had just been let go from his job there came in , shot and killed another man , " vancouver police const .
tim fanning told a news conference .
" there was at least a dozen other people on the scene .
they managed to get out .
" our negotiators got on the phone with him right away , and fortunately were able to talk him down from his very , very excited and upset state . " .
fanning said no one else was injured .
offices around the neighbourhood were shut down during the police standoff that lasted two hours before the gunman gave himself up .
staff at fiji island auto , across the street from the building where the shooting took place , were told at 5 : 30 p.m. local time to leave the premises .
john christie , head of house production for paperny films , located down the street , said they were planning to hold an office party upstairs when someone heard shots fired .
" we have been asked by the police to stay away from the windows and we 've been forced to go downstairs , " christie said .
a former employee walked into a staff christmas party at an east vancouver health products business friday and shot and killed a man , according to police .
police said they were called to tallgrass distributors ltd. , in the central mount pleasant neighbourhood , where a man carrying a firearm had confronted the crowd .
" a man who apparently had just been let go from his job there came in , shot and killed another man , " vancouver police const. tim fanning told a news conference .
" there was at least a dozen other people on the scene .
they managed to get out .
" our negotiators got on the phone with him right away , and fortunately were able to talk him down from his very , very excited and upset state . " .
after two hours a 61-year-old man surrendered and was arrested .
fanning could n't say if anyone else was in the building at the time , but said no one else was injured .
nigel hacker said he looked outside his nearby office at about 4:20 p.m. to see the street cordoned off .
" there was someone in the building and they were trying to get him out , " hacker said .
" i tried not to listen . " .
but he caught the tone of the conversation .
" it was n't emotional from this end , " he said .
" everything seemed under control .
they did a great job . " .
down the street at paperny films , john christie said employees were planning to hold an office party upstairs when someone heard shots fired and the police came knocking at their door .
" we have been asked by the police to stay away from the windows and we 've been forced to go downstairs , " christie said .
" we 're having an office party anyway so we 're just staying out of the way , undercover .
if we 're in a lockdown , at least we have beers and pizza . " .
christie said the police , who placed an undercover officer at paperny 's front door , were n't pleased when some office workers fled through the back alley to get home .
tallgrass claims it is the fastest-growing natural-health-product supplier to the natural health industry in canada .
it was originally called tallgrass hemp company , and supplied a variety of products based on the hemp plant , including body dope , a line of hair- and skin-care products made with hemp and other botanicals .
a 61-year-old man in canada is charged with first-degree murder in a deadly office christmas party shooting .
constable tim fanning says eric allen kirkpatrick , who had recently been fired from his job in vancouver , is accused of fatally shooting benjamin david banky .
fanning says at least a dozen people were at the party when the gunman entered about 4 p.m .
police locked down the neighborhood and kirkpatrick gave up about two hours later .
the business at the location of the shooting is listed as tallgrass distribution , a natural health product supplier .
a 61-year-old man was charged with first-degree murder saturday after allegedly opening fire at his former employers ' office christmas party in vancouver , killing one man , police said .
constable tim fanning said eric allen kirkpatrick , who had recently been fired from his job , is accused of fatally shooting benjamin david banky , 40 .
fanning said at least a dozen people were at the party when the gunman entered about 4 p.m .
all but kirkpatrick escaped without injury .
" police locked down the neighborhood and negotiated with the suspect , who gave himself up to police just after 6 : 00 p.m. , " fanning said in a statement .
the business at the location of the shooting is listed as tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
sheriff : michigan office shooting kills 1 , injures 2 .
posted : 1052 gmt ( 1852 hkt ) , april 10 , 2007 .
a michigan man shot to death one person and injured two others monday at the suburban detroit accounting firm from which he was fired last week , police said .
the suspect , 38 - year - old anthony lacalamita , was "deliberately seeking out these individuals , " according to troy police lt . gerry scherlinck .
a female receptionist died and two men , believed to be "management level employees , " underwent surgery for gunshot wounds at royal oak beaumont hospital , scherlinck said .
a 50 - year - old man from dexter , michigan , tipped off authorities to lacalamita's location after hearing a description of the suspect's vehicle - - a 2007 silver ford fusion - - on the radio .
the man , who did not want to be identified , called 911 when he realized the vehicle directly next to him matched the description on the radio , according to genesee county sheriff robert pickell .
police attempted to stop the vehicle as it entered vienna township , but lacalamita would not pull over , pickell said .
lacalamita drove across several counties , at speeds up to 120 miles per hour , surrendering only after authorities boxed in his car on interstate 75 in saginaw , michigan .
he surrendered "peacefully and without incident , " pickell said .
upon arrest , police seized a shotgun and several shells , he said .
lacalamita is being held in the genesee county jail and is expected to be handed over to the detroit police .
a web site for the public accounting firm gordon advisors in the building lists lacalamita as an employee .
"we heard gunshots . . . .
we're on the third floor , barricaded in , " bill adgate , who works for lpl financial in the office building , told cnn affiliate wdiv - tv as the search went on for the gunman .
"we put a conference table in front of the front door with a bunch of chairs , " adgate told wdiv , a detroit station .
"we have four entrances - - three entrances to our offices .
we put file cabinets and things of that nature in front of it . " .
monday's shooting follows two last week in public places in atlanta , georgia , and seattle , washington .
in atlanta's cnn center on tuesday , police say a man shot to death his former girlfriend just downstairs from the center's omni hotel and outside the cnn . com newsroom .
on monday on the seattle campus of the university of washington , a gunman killed his former girlfriend and then himself .
in early march , a gunman shot and wounded three people at a printing facility near los angeles , california , before killing himself .
police said he was a disgruntled employee of the facility in signal hill , california .
in february , a gunman killed five people and injured several others at a shopping mall in salt lake city , utah , before an off - duty policeman killed the shooter .
a 61-year-old vancouver man was charged yesterday in connection with the fatal shooting of his former boss at an office christmas party .
eric allen kirkpatrick faces one count of first-degree murder , vancouver police said .
it was unclear when he would appear in court to answer to the charge .
the victim , benjamin david banky , 40 , of vancouver was gunned down friday when a man showed up at the christmas party with a gun .
the man " had a firearm with him .
he shot one man fatally right away , " said vancouver police spokesperson tim fanning .
the business where the shooting occurred is listed as tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
kirkpatrick was let go by his employer last thursday , fanning said , but he did not know how long the suspect had worked at the business .
the other people at the office party were able to escape without injury , fanning said .
" the shock was tremendous , but all the other people in the business - and there were another dozen other people who were there for a christmas party - managed to get out safely , " fanning said .
police were called immediately , and surrounded the building , fanning said .
what followed was a tense two hours while police negotiated the suspect 's exit from the building .
it 's not known what kind of firearm was involved .
luke pigeon , who lives in an apartment next door , said he did n't hear a gunshot but saw a woman fleeing the building next door .
" all i saw was a ... lady running down the block screaming , " pigeon said .
he said she ran into a nearby auto repair shop where she apparently called for help .
police were on the scene within minutes .
1 dead , 2 hurt in mich . office shooting ; police say suspect had worked there .
updated 4 / 9 / 2007 6 : 04 pm .
a man suspected of shooting three people at an accounting firm where he had worked was arrested a few hours later after a high - speed chase , authorities said .
one victim died in the monday morning attack .
police said they had located anthony lacalamita , 38 , of troy on interstate 75 , north of the suburban detroit office building where the shootings took place .
on deadline : live updates and local coverage .
sheriff's deputies and state police chased him at speeds of more than 100 mph before he finally pulled over after about 15 minutes , genesee county undersheriff james gage said .
"he probably realized if he didn't , he was going to be shot , " gage said .
he said lacalamita was being brought to genesee county , since it was the arresting agency .
officers found a gun in the vehicle matching the description of the one used in the shootings , troy police lt . gerry scherlinck said .
some witnesses told police that when the shooter walked into the office on the building's second floor around 10 a . m . monday , he looked as if he was trying to hide something , troy police chief charles craft said .
police couldn't say how many shots were fired .
"i'm not positive all three of the people were targeted , but there appeared to be some purpose , " craft said .
the families of the two wounded men requested "total privacy , " and the hospital would not release any details about their conditions , beaumont hospital spokeswoman ilene wolfe said .
she said the third victim died on the way to the hospital .
lacalamita was listed among the professional staff on the website of gordon advisors , a public accounting and business consulting firm in the building .
calls to gordon advisors were not answered monday afternoon , and a recording said the offices were closed .
scherlinck described the shooter as a former employee of one of the offices who might have been terminated as recently as a week ago .
the man was armed with a long gun , either a shotgun or a rifle , scherlinck said .
the 170 , 000 - square - foot building houses a number of businesses , including law offices and the accounting firm where the shooting was believed to have occurred .
police at first told workers to stay in their offices but a short time later evacuated the building , about 15 miles north of detroit .
bill adgate , who works at lpl financial inside the building , said he had hunkered down inside the office for a couple of hours with furniture pushed up against the door .
he said police told the group to stay put until officers allowed them to leave .
"it's tough .
i want to get out , " adgate said by telephone .
a man has been charged with first-degree murder after a shooting at an office christmas party in vancouver friday .
police allege eric allen kirkpatrick , 61 , opened fire at the tallgrass distribution ltd christmas party , killing benjamin david banky , 40 .
banky was the ceo of tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health products company .
at least a dozen employees had been celebrating when the gunman , who had been recently laid off , entered the party and began firing a gun , according to vancouver police spokesperson const. tim fanning .
the other partygoers managed to escape unharmed .
" the shock was tremendous but all the other people in the business - and there another dozen other people who were there for a christmas party - managed to get out safely , " fanning said .
police locked down the neighbourhood before the suspect turned himself in around 6 p.m .
police said kirkpatrick was let go on dec. 11 .
a resident who lives in a nearby apartment building told the canadian press that he did not hear gunshots , but saw a woman run from the party and into a nearby auto repair shop , where it appears she called for help .
" all of a sudden in my front yard there were five totally decked out , geared up riot squad officers with guns out of the holster , aiming at the second floor of the building right beside us , " luke pigeon said .
" i tried to open up my door and they said close your door , lock your door . " .
mark pinder told the canadian press that police ordered a group of film studio employees into the basement of their building , which was across the street from the party .
the group was just about to celebrate the completion of a project when police came knocking , he said .
" people grabbed a couple of bowls of chips and dip and we just sort of moved the party downstairs , " pinder said .
" some people seemed quite concerned but there was n't anyone freaking out or crying .
everyone was calling their family and making sure that people knew they were ok . " .
pigeon said police spent about two hours negotiating with the suspect before bringing him into custody .
" they cuffed him on the ground and they took him into a cruiser , " he said .
" he was giving them a bit of grief , he was saying that his cuffs hurt , but he was following orders . " .
employees who had been at the party at the time of the shooting are receiving counselling from the vancouver police victim 's services team .
" i can not emphasize enough how traumatic this would have been for the people in there to see one of their co-workers gunned down , so we 're going to do all we can to help these people though a very , very difficult time , " fanning said .
troy , michigan office shooting follow - up - 1 dead , 2 injured , and suspect caught .
apr 12 , 2007 .
"a man suspected of shooting three people , killing one , at an accounting firm where was fired last week was arrested after a high - speed chase a few hours after the monday morning attack , authorities said .
police said they had located anthony lacalamita , 38 , on interstate 75 , north of the suburban detroit office building where the shootings took place .
sheriff's deputies and state police chased him for 30 miles , including through a construction zone , at speeds up to 120 mph before he finally pulled over after about 15 minutes , genesee county sheriff robert j . pickell said .
'he probably realized if he didn't , he was going to be shot , ' undersheriff james gage said .
lacalamita said nothing after officers surrounded him , pickell said , describing the suspect as 'subdued .
very , very , very subdued . ' .
officers found a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three live shells in the vehicle , pickell said .
witnesses said the shooter used a shotgun or a rifle , troy police lt . gerry scherlinck said . " ( fox news article ) .
the suspect was finally apprehended after a high - speed chase on interstate 75 .
he was finally stopped near the saginaw county and bay county border .
evidence found in the vehicle points to having apprehended the correct suspect .
"officers found a gun in the vehicle matching the description of the one used in the shootings , troy police lt . gerry scherlinck said .
some witnesses told police that when the shooter walked into the office on the building's second floor around 10 a . m . monday , he looked as if he was trying to hide something , troy police chief charles craft said .
police couldn't say how many shots were fired .
'i'm not positive all three of the people were targeted , but there appeared to be some purpose , ' craft said .
the families of the two wounded men requested 'total privacy , ' and the hospital would not release any details about their conditions , beaumont hospital spokeswoman ilene wolfe said .
she said the third victim died on the way to the hospital .
lacalamita was listed among the professional staff on the website of gordon advisors , a public accounting and business consulting firm in the building .
calls to gordon advisors were not answered monday afternoon , and a recording said the offices were closed . " ( usa today article ) .
local evening news in michigan originally reported that two of the three victims died .
the subsequent car chase tied up traffic on the i - 75 corridor in flint , saginaw , and bay city , michigan for quite some time .
a former employee recently let go from his job opened fire at an office christmas party friday , killing one person , police said .
" the suspect , a 61-year-old man , entered the business , which had at least a dozen people inside enjoying a christmas party , " police said in a statement .
police const. tim fanning said the gunman entered the party around 4 p.m .
one man was shot and killed but the other partygoers managed to escape and no one else was injured .
" police 'locked down ' the neighborhood and negotiated with the suspect , who gave himself up to police just after 6 : 00 p.m. , " fanning said in the statement .
the business at the location of the shooting is listed as tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
luke pigeon , who lives in an apartment building next door , said he did n't hear a gunshot but heard a commotion outside his window .
" it was n't typical , crazy noise that sometimes happens .
you got the feeling there was something definitely , definitely wrong , " pigeon told the canadian press .
he looked out his window and saw someone fleeing the building next door .
" all of a sudden in my front yard there were five totally decked out , geared up riot squad officers with guns out of the holster , aiming at the second floor of the building right beside us , " pigeon said .
he spent the next two hours in his apartment , with armed officers about 10 feet from his front window as police tried to negotiate with the suspect .
finally , he heard activity as the gunman gave himself up .
" they cuffed him on the ground and they took him into a cruiser , " he said .
" he was giving them a bit of grief , he was saying that his cuffs hurt . " .
police said the victim 's name would not be released until next of kin had been notified .
they said the name of the suspect would be released after he is formally charged .
breaking news - three people shot in office shooting in suburban detroit .
apr 9 , 2007 .
there is breaking news out of troy , michigan , a suburb of detroit .
"a gunman shot three people at a suburban detroit office building monday morning , and officers were searching for the shooter , police said .
the victims' conditions weren't immediately known , said troy police lt . gerry scherlinck .
a spokeswoman for beaumont hospital in royal oak said the three victims were taken to the hospital but could not provide more details .
witnesses told detroit broadcast stations that the shooter was a former employee of an accounting firm inside the building . " ( yahoo ! news article ) .
at this time , there is no information on the whereabouts of the shooter .
however , there is additional information detailing the scene of the crime .
"the 170 , 000 - square - foot building houses a number of businesses , including law offices , a state farm insurance office and c&amp;g accounting , where the shooting was believed to have occurred .
police at first told workers to stay in their offices but a short time later evacuated the building .
police in bulletproof vests and with guns could be seen going into the building , and people from inside could later be seen walking quickly out through a parking lot .
the office building is about 15 miles north of detroit . ( cnn news article ) .
while both yahoo ! news and cnn news aren't reporting additional information regarding the suspect and the situation , fox news is .
"troy police lt . gerry scherlinck told fox news that it's unknown if the shooter is still in the building or if he escaped but the car police believe he arrived at the building in no longer is in the parking lot .
'we're actively looking for him and the vehicle , ' he said shortly before noon edt .
'there's an active search for this suspect . ' .
the suspect's name is anthony calamita and he was described by police as a 5 foot , 8 inch 38 - year - old male weighing 180 pounds , with short black hair parted on the side , wearing a dark brown or blue sweater and navy pants .
witnesses told local fox affiliate wjbk in detroit there were sounds of gunfire around 10 : 30 a . m .
employees of the building told wjbk that the shooter was a former disgruntled employee who brought a rifle into the building .
his picture was passed out to officers on the scene .
the suspect's car was described as a silver 2007 ford fusion with the license plate bey 0843 . " ( fox news article ) .
additional information will follow as more details of the incident become known .
it is unclear as to the nature of the dispute .
a former employee who opened fire at an office christmas party killing one man , has been charged with first-degree murder , police said saturday .
constable tim fanning allege the recently-fired man , eric allen kirkpatrick , 61 , opened fire at a vancouver office friday , killing benjamin david banky , 40 .
fanning said the gunman , entered the party of at least a dozen people around 4:00 p.m .
one man was shot and killed but the other partygoers managed to escape and no one else was injured .
" police 'locked down ' the neighborhood and negotiated with the suspect , who gave himself up to police just after 6:00 p.m. , " fanning said in a statement .
the business at the location of the shooting is listed as tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
luke pigeon , who lives in an apartment building next door , said he did n't hear a gunshot but heard noise outside his window .
" it was n't typical , crazy noise that sometimes happens .
you got the feeling there was something definitely , definitely wrong , " pigeon told the canadian press .
he looked out his window and saw someone fleeing the building next door .
" all of a sudden in my front yard there were five totally decked out , geared up riot squad officers with guns out of the holster , aiming at the second floor of the building right beside us , " pigeon said .
after two hours , he said , the gunman gave himself up and police cuffed him .
gunman kills 1 , wounds 2 at accounting office .
suspect had been fired last week by troy , mich . , company .
an accounting firm employee who was fired last week shot and killed a woman and wounded two men monday at the suburban detroit building where he worked , then led officers on a high - speed chase , police said .
hours after the shooting , a motorist 50 miles north of detroit spotted a vehicle described on radio reports and notified authorities , touching off a 30 - mile pursuit that passed through a construction zone and reached speeds of 120 mph , officials said .
anthony lacalamita iii , 38 , said nothing after officers surrounded him , genesee county sheriff robert j . pickell said .
officers found a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three live shells in the vehicle , but lacalamita as " subdued .
very , very , very subdued , " the sheriff said .
lacalamita " s calmness at the conclusion belied a frantic mid - morning at the offices of gordon advisors , a 40 - to 50 - employee company where workers had been busy preparing tax returns .
'pop , pop , pop' .
" we heard pop , pop , pop , " smelled gunpowder and heard co - workers yelling , said jean larson , 48 , a staff accountant for g&amp;c , a subsidiary of gordon advisors .
" i heard one employee screaming ,  he " s got a gun .
he " s got a gun . " . . .
it was a panic .
no one knew what to do .
no one knew where to go . " .
after briefly assembling in the employee lunchroom , some employees opted to hole up inside individual offices .
larson joined two female co - workers , barricading the locked door with chairs , turning off the lights and silencing their cell phones .
beneath a desk , the three curled up and kept quiet .
" i was just so scared , " larson said .
" i just kept thinking ,  this can " t be happening . " " .
police said the person killed was a 63 - year - old woman from warren but would not name her .
a message posted monday afternoon on the accounting firm " s web site said the office would be closed tuesday in memory of madeline kafoury .
retiree had returned part - time .
larson said kafoury was well - known and well - liked .
she said kafoury retired last year following the conclusion of tax season , but returned part - time this year after her successor quit .
troy police lt . gerry scherlinck identified the other victims as a 47 - year - old man and a 48 - year - old man .
wolfe said the families of the wounded men requested privacy , and the hospital would not release any details about their conditions .
" i " m not positive all three of the people were targeted but there appeared to be some purpose , " troy police chief charles craft said .
lacalamita was being held on charges of fleeing and eluding police and was expected to be charged tuesday in the shooting .
lacalamita was fired last week , craft said , but still was listed on the web site of gordon advisors .
calls made to gordon were not answered , and a recording said the offices were closed .
61-year-old vancouver man charged with first-degree murder after company ceo gunned down at office holiday party .
employees at a vancouver wholesaler were coping saturday with the death of their boss , who was gunned down at their office christmas party .
terrified workers ran screaming from building after a gunman opened fire at the party the day before .
a woman ran screaming from the office of tallgrass distribution after four loud pops were heard in the quiet vancouver street , said faud ali , owner of fiji islands auto repair , a business on the same street .
terrified that her sister was trapped in the office where a hooded gunman was pacing about , agitated , the woman ran to the auto shop to call police , mr. ali said saturday .
in the office she and about a dozen coworkers had just fled , benjamin david banky , 40 , the ceo of tallgrass , lay dead .
looking through the windows across the street , mr. ali told the canadian press he could see a man striding back and forth , holding what looked like a firearm .
" we saw the guy moving inside the office , " mr. ali said .
" he was just going back and forth .
after the shots , he just put the lights off .
" it is terrifying .
i still feel shaky when i talk about it .
" i just keep saying i can not believe this , i can not believe this . " .
police quickly responded and surrounded the building .
after two hours , a man surrendered .
tallgrass , a wholesaler of natural health products , issued a statement saturday evening saying it was " deeply saddened by the tragic death of our president and ceo , ben banky . " .
it described mr. banky as " a compassionate and dedicated leader who will be sadly missed . " .
the statement said mr. banky co-founded the company 12 years ago .
it said the company would have no further comment while the police investigation continues .
a 61-year-old vancouver man - eric allen kirkpatrick - was charged saturday with one count of first-degree murder in connection with the shooting , vancouver police said .
vancouver police spokesman constable tim fanning said the suspect had been let go from tallgrass on thursday .
he did n't know how long the suspect had worked at the business .
the other people at the office party were able to escape without injury , const. fanning said .
" the shock was tremendous but all the other people in the business - and a dozen other people who were there for a christmas party - managed to get out safely , " const. fanning said .
the shocked party-goers were put on buses and taken to police headquarters where witness statements were taken , he said .
he said counsellors have been made available to them .
" i can not emphasize enough how traumatic this would have been for the people in there to see one of their co-workers gunned down , so we 're going to do all we can to help these people though a very , very difficult time , " const. fanning said .
police were called immediately and surrounded the building , const. fanning said .
" we determined that there was nobody else in the building , just our victim , who was deceased , and the suspect , " const. fanning said .
what followed was a tense two hours while police negotiated with a suspect to give himself up .
it 's not known what kind of firearm was involved .
luke pigeon , who lives in an apartment building next door , said he did n't hear a gunshot but was drawn to his window by a commotion outside .
" it was n't typical , crazy noise that sometimes happens .
you got the feeling there was something definitely , definitely wrong , " mr. pigeon told the canadian press .
he looked out the window and saw a woman fleeing the building next door .
" all i saw was a ... lady running down the block screaming , " mr. pigeon said .
he said she ran into the auto repair shop and in what seemed like mere minutes , police were on the scene .
" all of a sudden , in my front yard there were five totally decked out , geared up riot squad officers with guns out of the holster , aiming at the second floor of the building right beside us , " mr. pigeon said .
" i tried to open up my door and they said 'close your door , lock your door . " ' .
he spent the next two hours in his apartment , as police negotiated and finally persuaded a suspect to surrender .
" they cuffed him on the ground and they took him into a cruiser , " mr. pigeon said .
" he was giving them a bit of grief , he was saying that his cuffs hurt , but he was following orders . " .
mr. pigeon also commended police for their handling of the dangerous situation .
" they managed to stop any further loss of life . " .
mark pinder was working at a film studio across the street when a police officer banged at his window .
" i did n't realize it was a police officer right away because he was a plainclothes officer , " mr. pinder said .
" but then i saw that he had a weapon drawn . " .
the officer told mr. pinder to get everyone in the basement .
mr. pinder and his fellow employees were just about to begin a party to celebrate the completion of a show they 'd been working on .
" people grabbed a couple of bowls of chips and dip and we just sort of moved the party downstairs , " mr. pinder said .
" some people seemed quite concerned but there was n't anyone freaking out or crying , " mr. pinder said .
" everyone was calling their family and making sure that people knew that they were okay . " .
work place killings are rare , police say .
" it 's something no business can prepare for , " const. fanning said .
jury finds suspect in troy office shooting guilty .
on april 30 , 2008 at 4 : 31 am , updated april 30 , 2008 at 8 : 33 am .
a jury on tuesday convicted a man charged in an april 2007 shooting at a troy accounting firm that left a receptionist dead and two managing partners wounded .
anthony lacalamita iii was found guilty of first - degree murder and assault with intent to murder in the shotgun slaying of 63 - year - old madeline kafoury and assault with intent to kill in the shootings of paul riva and alan steinberg at the accounting firm .
defense attorney jerome fenton argued lacalamita's extensive history of mental illness was to blame .
assistant oakland county prosecutor rob novy said the 39 - year - old troy man shot his former co - workers because he was furious over his firing four days earlier .
a just- fired employee of a canadian health products company crashed the office christmas party in vancouver , killing the chief executive officer , police said .
vancouver police identified the victim of the friday night shooting at the tallgrass distributors ltd .
christmas party as benjamin banky , 40 , the canadian broadcasting corp. reported .
police said eric allen kirkpatrick , 61 , surrendered after two hours of negotiations with police and was charged saturday with first-degree murder , the cbc reported .
kirkpatrick had been dismissed from his job thursday .
authorities said they did not know how long he had worked at tallgrass or the reasons for his termination .
other employees of tallgrass distributors ltd. escaped unharmed , the vancouver sun reported .
" a man who apparently had just been let go from his job there came in , shot and killed another man , " police constable tim fanning said .
" our negotiators got on the phone with him right away , and fortunately were able to talk him down from his very , very excited and upset state . " .
police blocked the street in the mount pleasant neighborhood .
employees of other companies in the area were asked to stay where they were until the surrendered .
tallgrass distributes products based on hemp , including body dope , a brand of skincare products .
mich . accountant charged with murder in office shootings .
updated 4 / 11 / 2007 1 : 26 pm .
a fired accountant accused of wounding two former bosses in a shotgun attack and killing a receptionist who tried to stop him was arraigned wednesday on murder and other charges .
anthony lacalamita iii , 38 , had been arrested following a high - speed chase a few hours after the monday morning shootings at gordon advisors in suburban detroit .
during his arraignment wednesday , authorities described what witnesses saw inside the offices that morning .
lacalamita was hiding the gun when he walked into accounting firm offices , stopped briefly at the reception desk and then entered alan steinberg's office , troy police sgt . barry whiteside testified .
steinberg , a partner in the firm , told police lacalamita loaded a shell into the shotgun's chamber and shot him in the hip , then walked toward the office of paul riva , another partner .
when receptionist madeline kafoury tried to stop him at riva's door , the gunman fatally shot her in the midsection , whiteside said .
lacalamita then fired at riva , hitting him in the upper chest , and left the building , whiteside said .
riva had yet to regain consciousness wednesday and was on a ventilator , police said .
as whiteside talked in court , kafoury's adult daughter sobbed uncontrollably .
"she wasn't just a receptionist . . . .
she was our mom and the grandmother of our children , " kafoury's son , charlie , said after the hearing .
"she was an essential point of our lives . " .
not guilty pleas were entered on lacalamita's behalf to charges of first - degree murder , intent to murder , possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony and fleeing and eluding police .
asked by the judge if he understood the charges against him and if he was aware that he could be sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole if convicted of first - degree murder , he responded "yes . " .
the judge ordered him held without bail pending his next court hearing april 19 .
troy police lt . gerry scherlinck said riva and steinberg appeared to have been the targets in the shootings .
lacalamita had been fired last thursday as a general accountant at the firm and bought a shotgun and shells on friday , scherlinck said .
he said police found a box consistent with one that would hold a shotgun , as well as empty shell boxes , in a dumpster outside lacalamita's apartment monday evening .
when lacalamita was arrested , police said they found a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three shells in his vehicle .
matthew roth , executive staff attorney for the prosecutor's office , said his office had not been told if lacalamita or his family had retained a lawyer .
lacalamita is married , but his wife , michele , released a statement saying they had been separated for about three weeks .
according to real estate records obtained by the associated press , the couple during the past year actively bought and sold suburban homes .
records list michele lacalamita as the owner of all four .
riva , 47 , of sterling heights and steinberg , 48 , of macomb county's bruce township , were being treated at beaumont hospital , where spokeswoman ilene wolff said the families of the wounded men asked that their conditions and other information not be released .
gordon advisors issued a statement tuesday expressing condolences to the families of the victims .
"we are especially devastated by the death of madeline kafoury and our hearts go out to her family .
maddie was revered by clients , employees and owners alike , " the statement said .
"we express our gratitude to our employees for their bravery on monday and for their support in the days to come . " .
one man is dead after an ex-employee opened fire at his company 's christmas party at a vancouver , b.c. business friday night .
just past 4 p.m. friday , vancouver police received a call of a man being shot at 40 east 5th ave. at a business called tall grass distribution limited .
police say a recently laid off employee opened fire shortly after entering the party , killing one male employee. at least a dozen workers were at the party at the time .
a 61-year-old man surrendered to police shortly after 6 p.m .
he is currently in custody and his identity will not be released until charges are formally laid .
police locked down the busy neighbourhood for almost three hours while they negotiated with the suspect , directing traffic away from ontario street .
employees at the party have been questioned by police and have been shuttled out by bus for further investigation .
police say they are receiving counseling from its victim services unit .
employees at neighbouring businesses were forced to hide inside their offices during the shooting .
the name of the deceased will not be released until next of kin are notified .
fired accountant goes on shooting spree .
on apr 12 2007 .
a fired accountant bought a shotgun the day after he lost his job , then returned to the office the following week and opened fire on his bosses , wounding both and killing a receptionist , the associated press reported .
troy , mich . police said anthony lacalamita iii , 38 , targeted two managers and also may have intended to shoot another one .
"there is a suspicion that there might have been a third upper management official he was seeking , " said troy police lt . gerry scherlinck .
the man , whom police did not identify , was not in the office at the time of the attack .
lacalamita had been fired last thursday as a general accountant at the firm and bought a shotgun and shells on friday , scherlinck said .
he said police found a box consistent with one that would hold a shotgun , as well as empty shell boxes , in a dumpster outside lacalamita's apartment monday evening .
when lacalamita was arrested , police said they found a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three shells in his vehicle .
scherlinck said lacalamita had been denied a handgun permit in march but it wasn't clear why .
anthony lacalamita iii , 38 , had been arrested following a high - speed chase shortly after the monday morning shootings at gordon advisors in suburban detroit .
during lacalamita's arraignment , authorities described what witnesses saw inside the accounting firm's offices that morning .
lacalamita walked in around 10 a . m . , stopped briefly at the reception desk , then entered alan steinberg's office with the shotgun , troy police sgt . barry whiteside testified .
steinberg , a partner in the firm , later told police lacalamita loaded a shell into the shotgun's chamber and fired at him , hitting him in the hip area .
he then walked toward the office of paul riva , another partner .
receptionist madeline kafoury was standing in the doorway of riva's office , and the gunman fatally shot her in the midsection , whiteside said .
lacalamita shot riva in the upper chest , then left the building , whiteside said .
he was gone when officers swarmed the office building and began evacuating other workers , then was arrested a few hours later after a chase on a nearby interstate .
riva had yet to regain consciousness wednesday and was on a ventilator , police said .
lacalamita is charged with first - degree murder in the death of kafoury , 63 , and intent to murder in the shootings of riva , 47 , and steinberg , 48 .
he also is charged with possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony and fleeing and eluding police .
a not guilty plea was entered on lacalamita's behalf during the hearing .
asked by the judge if he understood the charges against him and if he was aware that he could be sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole if convicted of first - degree murder , he responded "yes . " .
the judge ordered him held without bail pending his next court hearing april 19 .
the judge said he would appoint a lawyer for lacalamita .
he did not have a representative in court wednesday .
lacalamita is married , but his wife , michele , released a statement saying they had been separated for about three weeks .
according to real estate records obtained by the associated press , the couple during the past year actively bought and sold suburban homes .
records list michele lacalamita as the owner of all four .
riva and steinberg were being treated at beaumont hospital , where spokeswoman ilene wolff said the families of the wounded men asked that their conditions and other information not be released .
a former employee walked into a staff christmas party at an east vancouver health products business friday and allegedly shot and killed a man .
police said they were called to tallgrass distributors ltd. , at 40 east fifth avenue. , where a 61-year-old man carrying a firearm had confronted the crowd .
const. tim fanning said the man , who had recently lost his job at tallgrass , walked into the party and pointed the gun at the victim .
he then let about a dozen employees leave before holing up inside the office building with the victim .
hostage negotiators were called in to get the man out of the building .
he finally surrendered at 6 p.m. and was arrested .
fanning could n't say if anyone else was in the building at the time , but said no one else was injured .
police used a neighbouring office as a base for the negotiations .
nigel hacker , who runs intarsia design out of a heritage home at 2016 ontario , said he was in his office waiting for people to attend a meeting at about 4 : 20 p.m .
he looked outside to see the street cordoned off .
police set up shop at the office and began trying to coax the gunman out of the building around the corner at 40 east 5th avenue .
" there was someone in the building and they were trying to get him out , " hacker said .
" i tried not to listen . " .
but he caught the tone of the conversation .
" it was n't emotional from this end , " he said .
" everything seemed under control. they did a great job . " .
just before 7 p.m. friday , the lights were still blazing at the two-storey 1950s-style office building , which was decorated with a christmas tree and santas made of cotton wool .
early on , about a dozen police officers milled about outside securing the building , while others blocked nearby intersections and directed traffic away from ontario street .
a coast mountain bus was called in to collect witnesses , translink spokesman drew snider said .
offices around the neighbourhood were shut down , with staff either told to stay indoors or escorted outside to their cars or other transport .
lorin pearce , an executive assistant at focus audio visual services on west fifth , said she saw what appeared to be a police officer with a gun at the corner of fifth and ontario .
she did n't know the focus of the police attention , but said the corner is home to several businesses .
when some employees tried to leave , they were told by police to stay inside the office until further notice , she said around 5 : 30 p.m .
" a couple of us tried to exit and they said , 'please go back inside , ' " .
pearce said , adding she was not afraid for her own safety .
staff at fiji island auto , across the street from tallgrass , were told to close shop at 5:30 p.m. and were escorted by police off the premises .
down the street , john christie , head of house production for paperny films at fifth and quebec , said employees were planning to hold an office party upstairs when someone heard shots fired and the police came knocking at their door .
" we have been asked by the police to stay away from the windows and we 've been forced to go downstairs , " christie said .
" we 're having an office party anyway so we 're just staying out of the way , undercover .
if we 're in a lockdown , at least we have beers and pizza . " .
christie said the police , who placed an undercover officer at paperny 's front door , were n't pleased when some office workers fled through the back alley to get home .
an employee of another nearby business , relaxus massage products , said staff were escorted to their cars by police so they could go home .
tallgrass claims it is the fastest-growing natural-health-product supplier to the natural health industry in canada .
it was originally called tallgrass hemp company , and supplied a variety of products based on the hemp plant , including body dope , a line of hair- and skin-care products made with hemp and other botanicals .
products also include shampoo , conditioner , therapeutic lotion and soap .
shooting at accounting firm leaves woman dead and 2 hurt .
published : april 10 , 2007 .
a man who was fired last week from his job at an accounting firm in suburban detroit walked into his former office with a shotgun on monday and shot three people , killing one , before fleeing and leading police officers on a high - speed chase , the authorities said .
the suspect , identified as anthony lacalamita , entered the second - floor office of the accounting firm , gordon advisors , about 10 a . m . and opened fire , the police said .
a 63 - year - old woman and two men , ages 47 and 48 , were shot , the police said .
the woman , identified by the police as madeline kafoury , died at the scene , the authorities said .
the two other victims were being treated at beaumont hospital in royal oak .
ilene wolff , a spokeswoman for the hospital , said that their families had requested privacy , and that the hospital was not releasing any information about their condition or the nature of their injuries .
though the police declined to release the names of the two men , the detroit free press identified them as paul riva , 47 , of sterling heights and alan steinberg , 48 , of bruce township .
both are partners in the firm , the newspaper reported .
mr . lacalamita , 38 , who was still listed on the firm " s web site as a member of its " professional staff , " had been dismissed last week , the police said .
though they would not say what his relationship was with any of the victims or what led to the shootings , " it doesn " t appear it was random , " the troy police chief , charles craft , said .
officers and witnesses described a chaotic scene immediately after the shooting as workers barricaded themselves in their cubicles and offices .
a few hours later , some employees gathered outside the building but would not speak to reporters .
the three - story office building houses other tenants in addition to the accounting firm , and appeared to have no formal security system , chief craft said .
he said witnesses told the police that mr . lacalamita had walked into the building and into the firm " s unlocked suite as though he were concealing something .
mr . lacalamita fled in his car before officers arrived , but witnesses took note of the license plate number , the authorities said .
about two hours after the shooting , officers received a tip from a motorist in flint , about 50 miles north of here , on the whereabouts of the car .
police officers chased mr . lacalamita for about 30 miles at speeds of up to 120 miles an hour on interstate 75 before apprehending him near bay city .
fresh wave of rioting hits greece .
there 's been more rioting in greece in protest at the death of 15-year-old alexandros grigoropoulos .
the teenager was shot and killed by police in athens eight days ago , triggering violent protests which have spread across the country .
the teenager was shot and killed by police in athens eight days ago , triggering violent protests which have spread across the country .
the latest trouble began as protestors gathered in the capital city to target the station where the policeman charged with alexandros ' murder was based .
earlier , several peaceful services had been held to remember the teenager .
advice if you 're upset by the news .
at least 70 people have been hurt in the protests over the past eight days .
as the riots have continued , more and more people have been calling for the greek prime minister costas karamanlis and his government to quit .
but mr karamanlis says he will not be pushed out by the protestors .
dozens "riot" over nypd's fatal shooting of brooklyn teen .
yesterday , the police explained that officers shot and killed a 16 - year - old kimani gray in brooklyn because he allegedly pointed a gun at the cops .
however , his relatives are skeptical of the police account--his sister mahnefah gray said , "he has common sense . . .
they killed my little brother for no reason . " .
tonight , a crowd gathered to mourn his death--and protest police treatment .
police said two brooklyn south anti crime plainclothes officers had been on patrol when they noticed young males near 473 east 52nd street .
according to the nypd's statement , the cops noticed one "break away from the group upon noticing the police .
the male . . . adjusted his waistband and continued to act in a suspicious manner .
the officers exited their unmarked auto and attempted to engage the suspect , who turned on them , and pointed a . 38 caliber revolver at the officers .
both officers fired at the suspect , striking him about the body . " .
a witness told the daily news "the cops , they just jumped out of the car so fast , .
they started shooting him and he went down , he was bleeding , holding his side , screaming , 'stop , stop . ' .
another witness described the scene to pix11 , "he was running for his life , telling the cops , 'stop . ' .
they really are , seriously , walking around , shooting little kids . " .
tonight , a large crowd gathered to remember gray , and it apparently became unruly as the crowd walked between the shooting location and the 67th precinct at snyder avenue near nostrand--there were reports that bottles were thrown at police officers .
nbc new york estimated the crowd at 70 , and the post says a crowd looted a rite aid .
the manager said , "they poured in here like 40 or 50 of them .
they pulled the registers off the counters , they flipped over everything .
they punched me in the face .
several of them did , not just one [ person . ] .
it was insane . " .
city council member jumaane williams lamented that a "peaceful vigil that devolved into a riot .
the youth in this community have no outlets for their anger , no community center . " .
nypd spokesman paul browne had said yesterday , "after the anti - crime sergeant and police officer told the suspect to show his hands , which was heard by witnesses , gray produced a revolver and pointed it at the officers , who fired a total of 11 rounds , striking gray several times . " .
police sources also told the news that "gray has four prior arrests , including charges of grand larceny , possession of stolen property and inciting a riot . " .
still , gray's sister mahnefah gray said that a witness told her that kimani was adjusting for his belt and that even if he had a gun , he wouldn't point it at the police .
at this point ( 10 : 30 p . m . ) , the police said that the crowd has dispersed and that there was one arrest , with no injuries to police or civilians ( the post says three people were injured ) .
more protests ahead in greece .
greek students announced new rallies on sunday after another night of violence over the police shooting of a teenager .
a police station in athens was firebombed on saturday night .
it was next to the exarchia district where alexis grigoropoulos , 15 , was killed by a police bullet on 6 december .
the officer who fired the shot says he killed the boy accidentally in self-defence due to a bullet ricochet .
a ballistics report is yet to be made public .
police said they made 86 arrests over the course of saturday 's protests .
pamphlets announced rallies in front of the athens police headquarters on monday and in parliament square on thursday .
opposition socialists are pressing for fresh elections .
however , prime minister costas karamanlis has dismissed calls to quit , saying the country needs " a steady hand on the helm " to deal with the current financial crisis .
large riot breaks out in brooklyn during vigil for teen shot 11 times by police .
monday , march 11 , 2013 23 : 51 .
police intervened when more than a hundred people joined in a candlelit vigil in the east flatbush neighborhood in brooklyn , new york , where 16 - year - old kimani gray was shot 11 times by police on saturday , according to russiatoday .
brooklynites on twitter reported that police followed the march and searched apartment buildings in the neighborhood without warrants , looking for children who had been seen throwing bottles at police from neighborhood rooftops .
march participants chanted " nypd kkk how many kids will you kill today , " people report from the scene .
" i " m in the middle of the riot action at church and snyder in my district .
right now , things are tense , " new york city councilman jumaane d . williams , who represents the area , said on twitter .
sixteen - year - old kimani gray was shot and killed on saturday night after , police say , pointing a gun at approaching cops .
according to the officers involved in the shooting , the teenager adjusted his belt " suspiciously , " and after they exited their vehicle to investigate , he pointed a . 357 caliber revolver at them .
both officers fired at the suspect , hitting gray eleven times in his torso and legs .
witnesses say gray , who was running for his life when he was shot , did not have a gun .
" stay down , or we " ll shoot you again , " police said once gray had been hit , according to the new york times .
after the shooting gray was rushed to a hospital but was declared dead on arrival .
ricochet killed greek teenager .
initial results from the post- mortem on a 15-year-old greek boy whose killing by police sparked five days of rioting show alexandros grigoropoulos died from a bullet ricochet .
according to forensic doctors and independent experts hired by the grigoropoulos family , the bullet " is a bit deformed , which showed the bullet touched a hard surface " before entering the boy 's chest , court sources said last night .
the news came as two police officers charged over the shooting prepared to go before a magistrate and riot police fired teargas at thousands of demonstrators advancing on the national parliament building in athens .
" now that we have these conclusions , which are in line with what my clients had indicated , they will give their statements to the judge , " said alexis kouyias , the lawyer for policemen epaminondas korkoneas and vassilis saraliotis .
amid anger towards the police compounded by the unpopularity of the government of prime minister costas karamanlis , greece is still awaiting a final ballistics report expected to shed light on mr korkoneas 's statement that the bullet bounced up off a pavement after he had fired warning shots to disperse a mob .
alexandros was allegedly among a group of 30 youths that had thrown stones at the squad car in the exarchia district of athens , which is known as a stronghold of political radicals .
riot police fired teargas at youths throwing molotov cocktails outside parliament last night , as a general strike paralysed greece and raised pressure on a fragile government reeling from four days of riots sparked by the police shooting .
the clashes escalated into running battles through the city centre , with riot police firing volleys of teargas at masked youths pelting them with rocks , bottles and blocks of marble smashed from the athens metro station entrance .
the youths smashed windows newly replaced after four days of the worst riots greece has seen in decades .
more than 10,000 people had been marching through central athens to protest the conservative government 's economic policies in a general strike that has shut down schools , public services and hospitals and grounded flights .
although the strike and demonstrations had been scheduled long before the riots broke out , they have taken on the added form of protest against the government 's handling of the riots .
fury at report clearing greek police over death of schoolboy .
greeks have reacted with fury to an official report which concluded a schoolboy whose death triggered riots across the country was killed by an accidental ricochet .
the finding came as a nationwide strike paralysed greece , with banks , schools and shops closed , flights in and out of the country halted and even the parthenon barred to tourists .
the fatal shooting of alexis grigoropoulos , 15 , on saturday sparked five days of riots and demonstrations across greece after witnesses claimed that the police officer deliberately took aim at the teenager .
but the lawyer acting for the officer , who has been charged with murder , said that initial results from a post-mortem showed that the boy was accidentally hit by a ricochet .
forensic experts said the bullet was " a bit deformed " , suggesting that it had bounced off a hard surface before hitting grigoropoulos in the chest .
lawyer alexis kougias said : " this tragedy is the result ... of an act by the policeman to fire into the air .
the bullet ricocheted , we have an entry wound from above .
it proves irrefutably that it was a ricochet . " .
but the tens of thousands of students who have taken to the streets of a dozen greek cities this week have pointed out similarities to the case of another 15-year-old , michalis kaltezas , who was killed by an officer during a demonstration in athens in 1985 .
the officer accused of shooting him in the back of the head was initially convicted of murder but was later found innocent after an appeal .
anthony livanios , a political analyst and pollster , said : " people will not buy it and there 's a possibility that it will make things worse .
it will be met with cynicism .
even if it 's true , which it might be , it will be seen as a cover-up . " .
protesters threw two petrol bombs at athens 's main courthouse where the officer and his partner were questioned by a magistrate .
they also attacked a television crew 's truck , injuring at least two people .
in athens ' main constitution square , where 10,000 gathered for an anti-government demonstration , riot police guarding parliament fired tear gas at demonstrators who attacked them with petrol bombs and cobblestones .
youths smashed windows which had only just been replaced from previous rioting .
students chanting " pigs ! murderers ! " clapped and cheered each time a riot policeman was hit by a rock .
business owners have accused the police of failing to protect their property as rioters rampaged through some of athens ' best known shopping areas .
although police have responded when directly attacked , they stood back as gangs of youths smashed windows , torched rubbish bins and set light to cars .
the cost of damage to shops and businesses in athens alone was estimated by the greek commerce confederation at about 200 million euros .
" in athens , we had 565 shops suffering serious damage or being completely destroyed " , said vassilis krokidis , vice president of the federation .
greece has entered a period of intense soul searching over the violence , the worst since the country 's military dictatorship was brought down in 1974 .
" there is acute shame and embarrassment about what has happened , " said mr livanios .
" it is unacceptable that in 2008 , in a country which is a member of the eu and nato , the government can not establish public order. two weeks before christmas , athens looks like downtown beirut . " .
the prime minister , costas karamanlis , has ignored mounting calls for his resignation .
an opinion poll for the respected kathimerini newspaper found that 68 per cent of greeks believe the government has mishandled the crisis including nearly half of respondents who voted for mr karamanlis ' conservative party in last year 's elections .
" for four days , greece has surrendered itself to flames and anarchy , " said an editorial in the conservative daily eleftheros typos .
" the volatile situation appears out of control , with the police appearing unable to deal with the situation. ... .
politicians appear to have fallen dramatically short of the task at hand . " .
greek police charged over boy 's death .
a greek police officer has been formally charged with voluntary homicide over the killing of a teenager that sparked nationwide riots , a court source said .
epaminondas korkoneas , 37 , has also been charged with the " illegal use " of his service weapon over the killing of alexis grigoropoulos and was ordered to remain in custody by an athens magistrate .
the officer 's partner , vassilios saraliotis , 31 , was charged with being an accomplice and will also remain in custody , the same source said today .
the pair have each been held since monday .
according to the charge sheet , mr korkoneas killed grigoropoulos on sunday during a clash with around 30 youths in the central athens district of exarchia , an incident which sparked this week 's violence .
under questioning , the court source said mr korkoneas indicated he had acted out of self defence when the group began throwing firebombs and other objects while shouting they " were going to kill them " .
the officer said that he took out his revolver and fired two or three times in the air out of self defence and that he had not aimed his gun at the victim who died from a ricochet .
ballistics tests conducted in the wake of the 15-year-old 's post-mortem reportedly showed the shooting may have been caused by a ricochet bullet , legal sources earlier said .
according to forensic experts and independent experts acting for the grigoropoulos family , the bullet " is a bit deformed , which showed the bullet touched a hard surface " before entering the boy 's chest .
mr saraliotis also said he acted out of self defence during the unrest which triggered five days of rioting in athens and elsewhere across greece .
greece rocked by more clashes over teenager 's shooting .
fresh riots were reported in greece on saturday december 13 2008 in protest at the killing by police of a 15-year-old boy , alexandros grigoropoulos , eight days ago .
the disturbances have ben described as the most serious in greece since student protests that preceded the fall of the military junta in 1974 .
violent clashes broke out in the capital , athens , following a day of demonstrations .
the protests in memory of the teenager had been initially peaceful .
students of the school attended by grigoropoulos held a silent vigil during the day in syntagma square .
hours later , hundreds of others brought candles to the site , while others gathered at the site of the shooting .
but later , about 100 youths hurled volleys of petrol bombs and rocks at a police station in the exarchia district , where the officer , who shot him and has now been charged with murder , was based .
the protesters chanted " murderers out " .
later , hooded and masked protesters targeted a commercial area near the national technical university of athens , known as the polytechnic , overturning cars and setting fire to three banks .
several shops and an office of the environment ministry were also attacked .
riot police positioned at street corners in the area responded by firing tear gas at the protesters .
unrest has now spread throughout the country , prompting calls for greece 's conservative prime minister costas karamanlis and his government to stand down .
brooklyn neighborhood is 'a powder keg' after teen killed by police .
mar . 14 , 2013 , 8 : 12 pm .
hostility has been mounting this week in east flatbush , brooklyn , after two plainclothes police officers fatally shot 16 - year - old kimani gray after he allegedly pointed a revolver at them on saturday night .
on monday a group of about 130 people were marching toward the 67th police precinct station when about two dozen young protesters splintered off -- drawing riot police -- and trashed a rite aid .
tuesday the crowd was mostly calm , but on wednesday -- the same day gray's autopsy showed he had been shot seven times -- part of the 200 person crowd became unruly .
the night began with hope that gray's mother would speak at a vigil alongside mothers of local shooting victims , but the night turned when about 30 young men showed up in the shadows across the street .
"they were staying in the dark area of the street , " a witness told cnn .
"you just knew it was going to turn into the cops trying to contain those kids who were obviously gonna go for it .
that just stopped the original intention of the night . " .
the witness said the teenagers suddenly took off , fanning through streets and side streets , followed by the sound of glass breaking and metal store - front gates being pulled down .
protesters began throwing bricks and bottles while cops began pepper - spraying and arresting .
by the end an officer's face and the window of a police van had been hit with bricks , and 46 people had been arrested .
the string of incidents has amplified the distrustful friction between the neighborhood's informal crews of armed teenagers and its aggressive police , whom residents say make prejudiced decisions based on race .
kenneth j . montgomery , an attorney for the gray family , told the la times that the police "patrol these neighborhoods like they " re paramilitary . " .
" [ the police ] have a hard time because there " s a lot of crime in the neighborhood , " a local barber told the new york times .
" but when they play hardball , they end up going after innocent people , too . " .
police say that on saturday around 11 : 30 p . m . kimani gray was standing outside his home with five other young men before splitting off when he noticed two plainclothes officers in an unmarked car .
after he "adjusted his waistband and continued to act in a suspicious manner , " officials say the cops got out of their car and approached gray -- who allegedly turned toward them with a loaded . 38 - caliber revolver in hand .
the 30 - year - old sergeant and 26 - year - old fired 11 shots -- the autopsy showed that seven bullets entered gray's body , three of them from the rear .
a revolver loaded with four bullets was reportedly recovered from the scene .
police commissioner raymond kelly told the new york times there was " nothing to indicate that this shooting was outside the guidelines " while john c . cerar , the former commander for firearms training at the police department , said "it appears to be a good shooting " under the reported circumstances .
that statement doesn't pacify neighborhood residents , who question the official story -- some in the community don't believe gray had a gun -- and perceive the officers' behavior as part of a larger trend of nypd antagonism .
" we " re talking about a powder keg out here .
any incident could trigger it , " city councilman charles barron told the la times .
on wednesday tensions "seemed to be decreasing until mahnefah gray , sister of the teen killed by police , was arrested while crossing the street , " according to danny gold of metropolis .
day six of the greek youth revolt .
protests , riots and clashes with police have overtaken greece for the sixth straight day since the fatal police shooting of a teenage boy in athens saturday night .
one day after wednesday 's massive general strike over pension reform and privatization shut down the country , more than a hundred schools and at least fifteen university campuses remain occupied by student demonstrators .
a major rally is expected on friday .
and as solidarity protests spread to neighboring turkey , as well as germany , spain , italy , russia , denmark and the netherlands , dozens of arrests have been made across the continent .
on wednesday , two police officers involved in saturday 's shooting were arrested , and one was charged with murder .
but anger remains high over the officers ' failure to express remorse at the student 's death .
the police officers claim the bullet that killed alexandros grigoropoulos was fired in self-defense , and the death was an accident caused by a ricochet .
the unrest this week has been described as the worst since the end of the military dictatorship in 1974 and could cost the already weakened greek economy an estimated hundreds of millions of dollars .
it 's also shaken the country 's conservative government that has a narrow one-person majority in parliament .
the socialist opposition has increased calls for the prime minister to quit and call new elections , ignoring his appeals for national unity .
i 'm joined now on the telephone by a student activist and writer from athens .
he 's with the greek socialist workers party .
he 's a graduate student in political philosophy at panteion university in athens .
we welcome you to democracy now ! can you lay out for us exactly when this all began and how the protests have escalated and what they 're about right now , nikos lountos ?
sunday , march 17 , 2013 | 5 : 00 pm .
riots erupt following death of brooklyn teen killed by police .
in the week following the fatal shooting of 16 - year - old kimani gray , several protests and riots have erupted in the teen's brooklyn neighborhood as the cops involved have come under scrutiny for previous reported civil rights violations .
gray was killed on march 9 by police who claim he pointed a gun at sgt . mourad mourad and officer jovaniel cordova before they opened fire .
an autopsy shows that gray was hit in the back by three of the seven bullets fired by the officers .
a loaded . 38 - caliber revolver was found at the scene .
since the shooting , over 50 arrests have been made over four nights of protesting where community members are expressing outrage and demanding justice .
gray's school principal , matthew willoughby of the urban assembly school of design and construction , wrote a heartfelt letter describing the teen as a hard - working student who was committed to his academics .
"kimani made great strides this year academically , " the letter read .
" he was taking an extra english class after school ; he was writing a dramatic dialogue in another english class ; his group in design class was working on a project to design a school .
now they are working to complete the project without him . " .
"kimani should be remembered for all of who he was--an energetic , kind , playful , independent young man who was trying to learn and grow one day at a time , " willoughby's letter continued .
in the days following gray's death , it's been revealed that both mourad and cordova have reportedly been named in five federal lawsuits with plaintiffs alleging civil rights violations .
as a result , the two men have reportedly cost the city about $215 , 000 in court settlements .
in 2009 and 2010 , mourad was sued three times with allegations including a stop - and - frisk in which mourad and fellow cops pulled down a suspect's underwear , and an illegal arrest in which the plaintiff says he was slammed into a car .
cordova was sued in 2011 and 2012 , with one plaintiff claiming the cop punched him in the eye .
greece calm after 8 days of riots by angry youths .
athens was calm sunday after eight days of the worst riots greece has seen in decades , sparked by the police killing of a teenager .
traffic returned to normal in the center of town and an open-topped double-decker bus carried tourists round the city 's main sights .
the popular cafes in the thissio area under the acropolis were busy , and couples took their young children for a sunday walk .
but greek youths who have protested daily since the boy 's death have vowed to remain on the streets until their concerns are addressed .
protesters are angry not just at the police but at an increasingly unpopular government and over economic issues .
a newspaper poll published sunday showed the governing conservatives ' popularity at a dismal 20.6 percent , 5.6 percent below the main opposition socialists .
however , 55 percent of respondents said neither party seemed competent to handle the situation .
the focus poll of 1,000 people for real news gave a 3.1 percent margin of error .
violence has wracked greece every day since the death of 15-year-old alexandros grigoropoulos , spreading quickly from athens to more than a dozen other cities and leaving at least 70 people injured .
hundreds of stores have been smashed and looted , and more than 200 people arrested .
late saturday and early sunday , youths in athens attacked a police station , stores and banks and fought running battles with police , as candlelit vigils were held to mark a week since the shooting .
a new candlelit vigil is planned for sunday evening at the site of the shooting .
a separate protest is scheduled in western athens .
while most of the protesters have been peaceful , the tone of the demonstrations has been set by a violent fringe .
and more young people have been willing to join those fringe elements than in the past .
" in the end , the violence that we use is minimal in comparison to the violence the system uses , like the banks , " said 32-year-old protester paris kyriakides .
" speaking as an anarchist , we want to create those social conditions that will generate more uprisings and to get more people out in the streets to demand their rights . " .
in a poll released sunday , some 62 percent of respondents said the reactions to the shooting were inexcusable , compared with 35 percent who believed the violence was justified .
the poll of 1,000 people gave no margin of error .
according to another poll , greeks see more in the violence than a simple reaction to the shooting .
asked whether the riots were a social uprising , 60 percent responded yes .
some 64 percent considered police were unprepared for the violence .
the poll of 520 people published in the kathimerini newspaper gave a 4.5 percent margin of error .
enraged protesters battle cops in brooklyn streets during third night of rioting after it's revealed that 16 - year - old kimani gray was shot in the back .
as fights between cops and angry teens erupted in east flatbush , 46 were arrested wednesday night .
police struggled to control a furious crowd that broke away from a planned peaceful vigil .
published : wednesday , march 13 , 2013 , 2 : 29 pm .
updated : thursday , march 14 , 2013 , 9 : 31 am .
protesters enraged over the fatal shooting of a teenager by police poured into brooklyn streets for a third straight night wednesday , pitching bricks , bottles and garbage in furious clashes with cops .
at least 46 demonstrators were arrested along church ave . in east flatbush .
police struggled to control a hostile crowd that broke away from a planned peaceful vigil for kimani ( kiki ) gray , 16 , killed by police on saturday night .
gray " s sister mahnefeh was among those arrested .
a police officer suffered a gash in the face when a tossed brick hit him , nypd spokesman paul browne said , and a window was smashed in an inspector " s car .
" they didn " t have to kill him , " makaeo williams , 18 , said as police on motorcycles tracked alongside him .
" i " m feeling mad inside .
i " m angry .
that " s why i " m out here . " .
many in the community contest police allegations that gray pointed a gun at cops when he was shot during a confrontation with two plainclothes officers on e . 52nd st . saturday night .
those suspicions on the street intensified wednesday when an autopsy report revealed gray was hit by seven bullets -- three to the back .
it was not clear in what order the shots struck the teen or whether he had his back to the police when they opened fire .
a witness told the daily news tuesday that the youth did not have a gun in his hand .
but a police spokesman said the witness told detectives she couldn " t see the incident clearly " from the angle i was at . " .
a woman who identified herself as gray " s cousin told news outlets wednesday that the teen was carrying a gun for a friend and was trying to alert cops that he had a weapon when he was shot .
a loaded . 38 - caliber revolver was recovered at the scene .
the trouble wednesday night began soon after more than 200 people set off from the vigil site at church ave . and e . 55th st . around 8 : 30 p . m .
dozens chanted " nypd , kkk , how many kids did you kill today " as they marched west on church ave . toward the 67th precinct stationhouse .
but things quickly got out of hand as some protesters tried to climb on police motorcycles .
men and women were pepper - sprayed and thrown to the ground and handcuffed .
" i " m scared for everything , myself , my store , my workers , " said salm sami , 45 , who owns the deli , grill &amp; grocery at church and new york aves .
" this is three days of this . " .
the protesters eventually backtracked to the vigil site where the parents of ramarley graham -- an unarmed teenager fatally shot by police in the bronx last year -- were waiting .
" it never seems to end , " said frank graham , ramarley " s father .
" the community has a right to be angry . " .
but city councilman jumaane williams , a frequent nypd critic , blasted outsiders who he said escalated tensions .
" please stay the hell out of our community will only agitate our kids , " williams fumed on twitter .
" it " s dangerous and counterproductive . " .
violent protests in europe borne out of deeper frustrations .
they gripped rocks and stones , looking ready for a fight .
but the five young men - sons of a dentist , merchants , a state tax collector - stood in the shadow of the university of athens before another day of battle in the greek capital 's running street protests .
" what i feel when i see this , " said one young man , a hard plastic helmet covering his curly brown hair , " is that i am loving my city more than ever .
because we are all here .
because we are discussing , really , what is going on here .
the system has failed us .
the politicians failed us . " .
" i do feel bad when i see property burned , " said a man wearing ski goggles and a dark blue jacket .
" but this is a statement , a manifestation of what we see has gone wrong here . " .
for more than a week , greece has been shaken by a rebellion .
a deadly police shooting dec. 6 in athens of alexandros grigoropoulos , 15 , was killed touched off the first riots .
then something else stirred .
a coming-of-age generation from thessaloniki to athens rose up to attack dozens of police stations , occupy university campuses and prompt the closing of the international airport .
some of their demands are immediate .
they want police banned from carrying guns .
others are less defined .
they are looking for government to change .
the center-right government of costas karamanlis , increasingly unpopular amid mounting economic problems , did n't anticipate or understand how the anger had spiraled .
the youth were suddenly lashing out at all that ails greece : a weak government , an economy that remains one of the poorest of the european union and their own bleak job prospects .
they looted businesses , pelted police with stones and ran amok near government banks , offices and university campuses with molotov cocktails .
about 100 people have been injured .
property damage is an estimated $ 2 million .
talk of what happened in athens and thessaloniki has spread to italy and spain , which have had protests of their own .
few of the dozen people interviewed in athens said they had a permanent job or a job that guaranteed a pension .
many older spectators said they are sympathetic - even if they did n't like the ruin left behind .
" i feel sorry for the young , " said 40-year-old tsikala stephania , a public sector worker .
" they do n't see much of a future , and they have to show their wrath in some way . " .
brooklyn riot over teen's death : 16 - year - old shot by cops did not have a gun , says witness .
tishana king says she saw the whole incident from a bird's eye view in her brooklyn apartment .
she says she's 'certain' slain kimani ( kiki ) gray 'didn't having anything in his hands . ' .
published : wednesday , march 13 , 2013 , 12 : 38 am .
updated : wednesday , march 13 , 2013 , 2 : 30 am .
a brooklyn woman who claims she had a " bird " s - eye view " of the fatal police shooting of 16 - year - old kimani ( kiki ) gray says the youth did not have a gun in his hand .
tishana king is the only civilian eyewitness to come forward , and her account sharply differs from police commissioner raymond kelly " s assertion that gray had pointed a . 38 - caliber revolver at the cops before they opened fire .
" i " m certain he didn " t have anything in his hands , " king told the daily news .
moments after the saturday shooting , one cop put both hands on his head and said , "  oh , god ! " " king recalled .
" his partner went over to him and put his hand on his shoulder and said ,  are you okay , buddy ? " " .
king , 39 , a medical records clerk at kings county hospital , said she gave a tape - recorded interview to detectives several hours after the shooting .
the detectives were aware her 14 - year - old son dialed 911 from their apartment after the gunfire .
but king , in her nearly eight - minute interview with nypd investigators at 3 a . m . on sunday , never said a word about whether gray was carrying a gun .
king emphatically told the news that gray didn " t have a weapon in his hands .
but the newspaper " s review of her nearly eight - minute interview with nypd investigators hours after the shooting shows she never mentioned whether the teen was carrying a gun .
" i couldn " t see what the kids were doing , " she said during the session .
the news reviewed the tape of the q&amp;a conducted in her apartment after the fatal shooting .
detectives and internal affairs bureau investigators never asked directly if king saw gray with a gun , and a police source said nypd policy precludes asking such leading questions .
" they " re just asked to say what happened in as much detail as they can remember , " the source said .
a police spokesman said that when king was asked what she saw by detectives , she told them she couldn't see what the boys were doing "from the angle i was at . " .
but king told the news that , at first , the boys were under her window and that they moved into view when police got out of their car and approached them .
the nypd has not released the names of the sergeant and cop who fired 11 shots .
a police source said the pair initially reported to supervisors that the teen had pulled a gun -- and a loaded weapon was recovered at the scene .
king told the news she was drawn to her third - floor east flatbush window late saturday night by the sound of loud laughing and talking outside on e . 52nd st .
she said she watched as a burgundy - colored sedan pulled up and a man jumped out of the passenger side , followed by the driver .
king initially thought the duo intended to fight with the youths .
when the driver yelled , " don " t move ! " it clicked that they were cops , she said .
" kimani started backing up , " king said .
" the cop took out his gun and started firing at kimani . " .
king said the area was illuminated by a streetlight and gray appeared to be cornered by the cops .
" his ( gray " s ) hands were down , " she said .
" i couldn " t believe he let off ( fired ) his gun .
there was no reason .
no false move . " .
a police source said king never told detectives that gray was backing up with his hands down .
kelly said an " earwitness " heard a cop yell , " what do you have in your hands ? " but a source said the man was too far away to see the confrontation .
the shooting appeared to be within nypd guidelines , he added .
athens vigil ends in violence .
violence reignited in athens following vigils for the teenager killed by police a week ago .
greek rioters have attacked an environment ministry building , shops and banks in athens on the eighth day of protests following the killing of a teenager by police .
the clashes late on saturday came after an evening candle-lit vigil to mark the shooting of 15-year-old alexandros grigoropoulos .
youths attacked a police station with petrol bombs in central athens as well as at least three banks , several stores and a government building , police said .
several hundred protesters set up burning barricades and attacked police with rocks and flares .
the killing of grigoropoulos has sparked the worst rioting greece has seen in decades , with at least 70 people injured in cities across the country .
hundreds of stores have been smashed and looted , and more than 200 people have been arrested .
earlier , hundreds of schoolchildren holding candles gathered peacefully outside the parliament building in athens and at the site where grigoropoulos was shot .
they left candles spelling out the name " alex " in front of a line of riot policemen .
banners in the main square outside parliament read : " the state kills " and " down with the government of murderers " .
" the murder of alexis was the last straw .
being a young man in greece today is a crime ... .
they are stealing our dreams , " said one leaflet distributed in the square .
the young protesters promised to remain on the streets until their concerns , including opposition to the increasingly unpopular government and worry over economic issues , are addressed .
throughout most of the day , the capital had appeared calmer than in the past week .
christmas shoppers cautiously returned to central athens earlier on saturday , but many stores had boarded up their windows instead of replacing the glass , for fear of further violence .
much of the rioting has been blamed on an anarchist fringe tapping into resentment over political scandals and the impact of the global slowdown .
'there " s a lot of anger here' : riot breaks out in brooklyn following candlelight vigil for 16 - year - old shot by cops .
memorial for kimani 'kiki' gray , who was fatally wounded by police saturday after allegedly pointing a gun in their direction , turned ugly as nearly 100 angry mourners clashed with cops , tossing bottles and creating a melee .
published : monday , march 11 , 2013 , 10 : 34 pm .
updated : tuesday , march 12 , 2013 , 9 : 36 am .
anger over the death of a brooklyn teenager shot and killed by police fueled a riot on the streets of east flatbush monday -- projectiles were hurled at cops , car windows were smashed and a pharmacy customer had a bottle bashed over his head .
the scenes of violence on blocks near the nypd " s 67th precinct stationhouse followed a protest march that grew out of a candlelight vigil for kimani ( kiki ) gray , 16 , killed by police bullets on saturday .
in the aftermath of the riot , as police were trying to secure the area and assess damage to stores along streets strewn with broken glass , city councilman jumaane williams called for police commissioner raymond kelly and mayor bloomberg to visit the community .
" there " s a lot of anger here , " said williams , whose district includes the riot zone .
" this isn " t just from one particular shooting .
a whole community has not been heard for far too long . " .
kelly visited the precinct stationhouse about 12 : 30 a . m . tuesday -- more than four hours after the chaos began -- but did not speak to reporters .
the vigil for kimani was held at e . 52nd st . and tilden ave . , the location of the shooting , which has caused tensions to simmer in the community , in part because the boy " s family contests police allegations that he was armed with a handgun .
starting at about 8 p . m . , nearly 100 people set off from the vigil site to march the more than 20 blocks to the precinct stationhouse , on snyder ave . near nostrand ave .
but the procession , peaceful at first , turned into a wild confrontation between furious marchers and cops after a faction broke off from the group and began to smash car and store windows with rocks and jump on the tops of vehicles , police sources and witnesses said .
" i was sitting in my living room , " said mary john , 43 , who witnessed destruction near e . 31st st . and church ave .
" people were standing up on vehicles .
i saw them take garbage from the sidewalk and throw it onto the street .
i saw someone take a tv and smash it into my neighbor " s car .
they were throwing rocks at the cars .
" i said ,  oh my god !
what " s going on here ? " " she continued .
" they were calling out ,  rest in peace , kiki . " .
i was shocked . " .
abdoulaye barry , 24 , who works at african movies , at church ave . and e . 31st st . , described how rioters tried to storm the business .
he said he was outside , saw rioters causing mayhem in the streets , and rushed back to urge his co - workers to lock the store " s gates .
rioters rushed the entrance , fighting with workers as they struggled to lock the roll - down gates , he said .
the workers succeeded -- barely .
but they locked themselves into the store from the inside .
firefighters later had to cut the gates to liberate them .
" it was like the end of the world , " barry told the daily news .
" that " s the first time something like that had happened here . " .
at a rite aid drug store on church ave . near albany ave . , which had about 60 people inside at the time , at least one rioter physically assaulted a customer -- cracking him over the head with a glass bottle .
he was rushed to kings county hospital and listed in stable condition later , a police spokeswoman said .
a manager of the store was also assaulted ; he refused medical attention , the spokeswoman said .
there were unconfirmed reports the store was looted ; the police spokeswoman said only that the cash registers were not robbed .
when cops finally managed to block the mob " s progress , about a block from the 67th precinct stationhouse , rioters began pitching glass bottles at police officers as they moved in on the crowd , a police source said .
one person threw a garbage can at a cop , the source added .
" they " re acting rowdy and calling us racist , " said a police officer at the scene .
as rioters fled into the night and protestors began making their way back toward e . 52nd st . , williams joined the fray and tried to prevent more violence .
" the mayor and the [ police ] commissioner should be down here .
right now ! " .
williams , a critic of nypd policy , said before kelly appeared on the scene .
" there " s a feeling that they don " t really care .
they are leading and policing for one portion of this city .
but they " re not paying attention to the other parts ; they " re not listening to them . " .
public advocate bill de blasio , a democratic candidate for mayor this year , also came to the area monday night .
" i understand if young people are frustrated , but we have to help them understand the way to deal with it should be a peaceful way , " he said .
" they have every right to protest -- that " s the american way . " .
williams said he was not surprised by the riot , only that it hadn " t happened before .
critics of the nypd " s controversial stop - and - frisk policy argued it leads to distrust of the police by the black community because its members are stopped in such high numbers .
" when something happens , we should be able to trust the police and what they say , " williams said .
" police officers shooting black men , black men shooting black men , it " s a problem that needs to be dealt with .
if they want to ignore it , it " s just going to keep happening . " .
following the shooting death of kimani on saturday , police officials said he flashed a gun at a pair of plainclothes cops who approached a stoop where he and others were hanging out .
police said a loaded . 38 - caliber revolver was recovered at the scene -- but family of the slain teen , who was hit multiple times by police bullets , vehemently deny that he was carrying a weapon .
before the riot monday , a police source told the news that investigators believe kimani was a member of the bloods street gang .
the source pointed to two youtube videos , published last year , that featured violence between bloods and crips .
the source said kimani appears in both videos , which the news has refrained from publishing due to graphic content .
in one video , kimani is clad in a red adidas hoodie and goes by the nickname " shapow , " the source said .
he can be seen taunting and hitting a 13 - year - old rival on nostrand ave . near glenwood rd . in flatbush after the adversary flashed gang signs and said he runs with the crips .
kimani also swiped a beaded necklace from the crip and then stomped on it , the video shows , while his friends in the background identified themselves as bloods .
the second video captured an apparent crips retaliation following the smackdown .
a group of self - identified crips stormed a mcdonald " s on utica ave . and ave . h in flatbush after they spotted kimani and other alleged bloods inside , according to the video .
after a minute of heckling and heated exchanges inside the mcdonald " s , the crips retreated outside .
they mocked kimani for refusing to come out into the parking lot .
a sanctuary for dissent in greece ?
greek law keeps police away from universities , but some fear the immunity clause meant to protect free speech is now being used to harbor bastions of violence .
masked men wielding clubs guard the entrance to the athens polytechnic university , keeping watch over the graffiti-covered walls on campus .
nearby streets are barricaded with the carcasses of burnt cars , and a huge black banner proclaims " murderers " - the rallying cry that has brought greece 's youths to the streets .
inside , piles of empty gas canisters testify to the scores of molotov cocktails assembled there recently .
for more than a week , athenian streets have been a battleground between police and protesters , whose anger was sparked by the fatal shooting of a 15-year-old boy by a policeman .
protected by greece 's constitution from police interference , the polytechnic has become the headquarters of the protest movement - and a haven for those wreaking havoc on the city 's streets .
as greeks try to make sense of the chaos - and prepare for another week of protests , ranging from sit-ins to nationwide roadblocks - many here are beginning to ask whether the asylum law is protecting free speech or simply harboring criminals .
" the university asylum is for the freedom of movement of ideas , but not of commitment of criminal actions , " says george bergeles , a professor at the polytechnic who is sympathetic to the students ' complaints , but not their harsh tactics .
" the law about university asylum i believe is a fantastic achievement of the university movement , but we should protect it by not allowing criminal offenses to happen inside . " .
the polytechnic holds historic importance for greeks .
in november 1973 , students barricaded themselves inside in rebellion against the country 's military junta , which had been in power since 1967 .
fearful that the revolt would spread , on nov. 17 the national police moved in with tanks , killing a still-disputed number of protesters .
the junta fell less than a year later .
greece 's new constitution gave special status to universities and other schools , forever barring the police from entering their grounds .
today , the poly-technic and other institutions of learning are once again brimming with revolutionary zeal .
across athens , high schools and universities are under occupation by students and other youth angry at the dec. 6 killing of alexandros grigoropoulos and also at a political system they see as corrupt and incompetent .
so far , prime minister costas karamanlis has rejected calls by opposition leaders to hold early elections , but his center-right party holds only a one-seat majority in parliament , and public support for his government was weak even before the riots .
the latest poll numbers show a 20 percent approval rating .
the polytechnic , which lies on the border of the edgy neighborhood of exarchia , where the 15-year-old was killed , is serving as the heart and brain center of the revolt .
there , anarchists - many of whom call exarchia their home - are helping to organize students and other young people .
the area just outside its gates has been the site of some of the most intense clashes with police .
inside , protesters regroup and rearm around bonfires that burn through the night .
there 's an air of menace outside the polytechnic .
but stergia sarantopoulou , an architecture student there who has been participating in protests , says the mood is angry but collegial .
like many students , she passionately defends the asylum law .
" there are historical , political , ideological reasons for the immunity to exist , " she says .
" universities are our home .
it 's the students home ; it 's the teachers home . " .
the university safe-haven policy might at times be abused , ms. sarantopoulou says , but in the long run society is better off by having a law that forever ensures a safe place for free speech .
" it 's much more harmful for the state to control [ universities , ] " she says .
the explosion of rioting and looting that took place in the aftermath of alexandros 's death has faded in recent days , but there are still daily protests , many of which end in hails of rocks and flaming molotov cocktails .
on saturday , the one-week anniversary of the shooting , the protests were largely peaceful , though still angry .
in daylight , a fragile normality began to return to the city center , with shops again opening and people returning to work .
but at night , uncertain athenians stayed away from the normally bustling city center , which was ghostly quiet .
groups of young people roamed the streets across central athens , shouting .
" this night is for alexi ! " .
a heavy cloud of tear gas and smoke hung over exarchia , which felt like a rebel-held enclave in a city at war .
police lingered warily on its edges as young people set up burning barricades and attacked government buildings and banks .
and clashes erupted once again outside the polytechnic .
few here think the unrest will end anytime soon , and the rage of greece 's youth continues to smolder .
the death of alexandros 's has tapped into anger about a range of broader complaints - about corruption , nepotism , a failing education system , and the poor economic prospects of young people , including unemployment rates in the 25 percent range .
protests are expected to continue throughout the week , with activists calling for roads to be blocked nationwide on tuesday .
they say they want to bring down greece 's whole political system - it 's not just the current government that is seen as tainted , most believe the main opposition is little better .
the protesters , however , struggle to articulate exactly what they want in its place .
" do n't bend your head down , " they chanted as they confronted police recently in front of parliament .
" the only way is resistance . " .
brooklyn neighborhood on police lockdown following protest .
published time : march 12 , 2013 02 : 03 .
edited time : march 13 , 2013 02 : 15 .
police intervened after more than 100 people joined together for a candlelit vigil in the east flatbush neighborhood in brooklyn , new york , where 16 - year - old kimani gray was shot multiple times by police on saturday .
brooklynites on twitter reported that police followed the march and searched apartment buildings in the neighborhood without warrants , looking for children who had been seen throwing bottles at police from neighborhood rooftops .
officers clad in riot gear were seen along the block , and barricades were placed on the streets .
march participants chanted , "nypd / kkk / how many kids will you kill today , " witnesses reported .
police said the crowd fell the 67th precinct station in east flatbush , where teenagers who were not apparently a part of any organized group threw garbage and empty bottles at the windows .
"i'm in the middle of the riot action at church and snyder in my district .
right now , things are tense , " new york city councilman jumaane d . williams , who represents the area , said on twitter .
williams said people smashed out windows and overturned garbage cans during the disorder , and that one person had been attacked outside of a local rite aid .
" tonight was a peaceful vigil that devolved into a riot , " williams wrote .
" the youth in this community have no outlets for their anger , no community . " .
one person is believed to have been arrested , and no injuries were reported .
sixteen - year - old kimani gray was shot and killed on saturday night after pointing a gun at two plainclothes officers who approached him , police said .
according to the officers involved in the shooting , the teenager adjusted his belt "suspiciously , " and after they exited their vehicle to investigate , he pointed a . 357 caliber revolver at them .
both officers fired a total of 11 shots at the suspect , hitting gray multiple times in his torso and legs .
his sister , mahnefah gray , told ny1 she doubted her brother was carrying a gun , but was rather grabbing his belt " to squeeze it " because he had a " skinny waist . " .
"they thought he was grabbing back to get a gun , " she said .
" he's 16 years old .
what is he pointing a gun at over six police , knowing that they would kill him ?
he has common sense . " .
witnesses said that gray , who was running for his life when he was shot , did not have a gun .
"stay down , or we " ll shoot you again , " police said once gray had been hit , according to the new york times .
"the cops , they just jumped out of the car so fast , " the new york daily news quoted witness devonte brown as saying .
"they started shooting him and he went down , he was bleeding , holding his side , screaming , 'stop , stop . " .
but one woman , who identified herself as the slain teen " s cousin , told ny1 that kimani was in fact holding the gun for a friend .
she also believed that kimani was attempting to alert the police that he had the weapon rather than use it .
after the shooting , gray was rushed to a hospital but was declared dead on arrival .
the officers involved in the shooting were also treated for trauma and tinnitus .
police said there is no evidence the unidentified officers acted inappropriately , though they were put on administrative leave .
the also said that gray had previously been arrested four times on charges of grand larceny , possession of stolen property and inciting a riot .
greek government under fire .
a week of violence in greece has taken its toll on the fragile conservative government , with opinion polls showing many think authorities mishandled the worst rioting in decades .
the shooting of a 15-year-old boy by police unleashed a wave of unrest by thousands of students and anarchists across the country .
this comes at a time where there is growing anger over political scandals and the impact of a global recession on greece 's economy .
while the violence has generally subsided in the past few days , small groups of hooded youngsters are still hurling fire bombs , smashing shops and fighting running battles with riot police .
prime minister costas karamanlis has pledged to ensure security , rebuffing calls for early elections .
an opinion poll published by ethnos newspaper on sunday said 83.3 percent of greeks were unhappy with the government 's response to the violence .
" i 'm tired of coming to the shop every night to check the damages .
you think it 's going to calm down and then it starts again. " said anna pavlidou , manager of a central athens mobile phone store that has been repeatedly attacked and looted .
" the government should assume its responsibilities and resign .
it did n't handle it well .
if it had , we would n't have 355 damaged shops in athens .
i mean we will not be able to open until christmas. " she said .
a policeman charged with killing alexandros grigoropoulos has been jailed along with a colleague pending trial , while more than 400 protesters have been detained over the unrest .
anger in east flatbush persists over teenager " s killing by the police .
published : march 13 , 2013 .
first came the shooting : an armed teenager killed by police officers on a darkened brooklyn street .
then came the anger : a monday evening vigil marred by an unruly young mob thrashing its way through local businesses ; a second protest the next night ; and another on wednesday night , after which , the police said , someone hit an officer in the face with a brick , another brick was thrown through the window of a police van , and there were 46 arrests -- mostly for disorderly conduct .
two officers suffered minor injuries .
by the time an autopsy of the 16 - year - old was released wednesday , the tension in east flatbush could be measured in the silently flashing lights of squad cars parked at tight intervals along church avenue .
for some , the sight of extra police officers meant a potential reprieve in an area troubled by crime .
for others , it was anything but reassuring .
the police said that two plainclothes officers fatally shot the teenager , kimani gray , just before 11 : 30 p . m . on saturday after he brandished a revolver and pointed it at them .
the police commissioner , raymond w . kelly , said tuesday that the police had interviewed three witnesses , " two of which say that the officers said ,  don " t move . " " .
" another witness said an officer says ,  freeze , " " he said .
the officers then fired 11 shots , the police said .
seven bullets hit mr . gray , including three that entered his body from the rear , according to the new york city office of the chief medical examiner .
the autopsy did not establish the order in which the bullets struck mr . gray , or determine the path of the bullets , which might make clearer if mr . gray had his back to the officers when he was shot , or if he had twisted away after being struck from the front .
but the findings , inconclusive though they were , appeared likely to heighten the tensions of a community already distrustful of the police and increasingly incensed about the shooting of the teenager .
on wednesday night , about 200 people attended the vigil .
the gathering became unruly when about half of them splintered off and marched to a nearby police precinct station house .
after officers in riot gear set up a roadblock on church avenue , mr . gray " s sister mahnefah tried to cross the street and was put into a police car .
she was given a summons and released .
some of the protesters shouted , " that " s the sister , " then started throwing bottles when the police would not release her .
someone hurled a chair .
screams could be heard as skirmishes broke out on side streets .
for local residents , many of whom voiced skepticism about the official account , the situation surrounding mr . gray " s death was grimly familiar .
less than a year before , and only blocks away , a narcotics detective shot and killed an unarmed 23 - year - old woman , shantel davis , as she tried to flee the police in a car that had been reported stolen at gunpoint , the police said at the time .
vigils followed that shooting as well .
but soon the rhythms of daily life returned , marked by what young men and women said was a daily backbeat of police stops .
" you try to put it out of your mind , " said ms . davis " s sister crystal .
in interviews around east flatbush , many spoke of a police department that , in its aggressive pursuit of gangs and informal criminal crews , had sown distrust , especially among young men and women , who feel that their encounters with officers often have racial overtones .
at a barbershop along church avenue , two men on tuesday were discussing the recent shooting when an asian delivery cyclist pulled onto the sidewalk across the street .
" see that guy ? " said elverton thomas , 39 , a black man and telemarketer who was there for a haircut .
" he can ride on the sidewalk .
we can " t . " .
his barber , julian clark , also black , concurred .
two years before , he said , an officer stopped him in front of the shop for sidewalk riding , and then arrested him after the officer said his identification had expired ; he spent a day in custody sorting it out , he said .
" they have a hard time because there " s a lot of crime in the neighborhood , " he said of the police .
" but when they play hardball , they end up going after innocent people , too . " .
the seemingly constant presence of the police in the lives of many youths -- both on the street and , increasingly , monitoring conversations on social media -- has left many feeling suffocated , said shanduke mcphatter , 35 , an ex - gang member who works with young men in the neighborhood .
" i understand the state of mind that these youths have , " he said .
" the problem is there is no relationship with the police . " .
at the same time , he said , the situation on the streets has grown more complex for law enforcement : gangs are less organized , replaced instead by informal crews with few requirements and in which leadership is frequently up for grabs among increasingly young members .
" the police say ,  look at these kids , they " re wild , " " mr . mcphatter said .
" and then they use that as an excuse to be wild themselves . " .
the rev . terry lee , who runs a local youth ministry and acts as a liaison to the police , said many of the neighborhood shootings involved " kids killing kids " and lamented that the community did not rise up more frequently in anger over those shootings .
but he said he understood why .
" the community we " re living in can get dangerous at times , " he said .
" people are afraid of retaliation . " .
mr . lee said the local 67th precinct had grown more open to the community in recent years .
" the problem is , people still don " t want to go to the police , " he said .
the autopsy report on mr . gray did not specify which of the seven bullets caused the death of the teenager ; that determination awaits further investigation .
one bullet entered his left shoulder in the rear ; two other bullets struck the back of his thighs , one in the left thigh and one in the right .
two bullets struck from the front , hitting his right thigh ; one bullet entered his left side , striking his lower rib cage ; and the last bullet hit his left lower forearm .
john c . cerar , the former commander for firearms training at the police department , said many factors could explain the wounds to the front and back of mr . gray " s body .
" most of the time , it " s the person making a turn , or the position of the officers , " he said , or some combination of the two .
once that person has a gun , he said , the threat to the officers is imminent .
mr . gray " s revolver was loaded with four bullets , the police said .
mr . kelly , the police commissioner , said tuesday that there was " nothing to indicate that this shooting was outside the guidelines . " .
mr . cerar concurred , saying , " under the reported circumstances , it appears to be a good shooting . " .
but raw feeling in the neighborhood fueled accounts at wide variance with that provided by the police .
some said mr . gray , while armed , did not point the gun ; others said they had heard that there had been no gun at all , or that his hands had been in the air .
a family friend , kevin blacks , 33 , said he was not surprised that the autopsy had found that mr . gray had been shot so many times or hit from behind .
he said he had spoken to mr . gray " s parents .
" the dad is shook , " mr . blacks said , standing by a makeshift memorial for mr . gray .
" he doesn " t sleep .
he doesn " t talk .
he " s still in a dream . " .
local elected officials and clergy members , seeking to lower the temperature in the neighborhood , mostly did not issue new statements wednesday .
" our focus right now is to get the funeral service together , " said gilford t . monrose , a local pastor and community leader who is working with the family on the service ; a date had yet to be set , he said .
on tuesday , police investigators could be seen inside a rite aid store where , the night before , a group of at least three dozen mostly young people briefly rampaged through the aisles , turning over displays and assaulting one customer who tried to intervene .
the police released store surveillance video and later announced the arrest of a 19 - year - old , saying he was one of three who hit the customer and took his cellphone .
" nothing justifies that , " mr . kelly said .
he said at a city council hearing on tuesday that the violence had been caused by a disorderly group that broke away from the vigil and did not constitute a riot , as some had termed it .
" that belittles it , " city councilman jumaane d . williams said later , referring to the community anger after the police shooting .
" so now we " re going to wait for something worse , for something that meets the true definition of a riot ? " .
greek government under fire over handling of riots .
a week of violence in greece has taken its toll on the fragile conservative government , with opinion polls showing on sunday that many think authorities mishandled the worst rioting in decades .
the december 6 killing of a 15-year-old teenager by police unleashed a wave of unrest by thousands of students and anarchists across the country , feeding on growing anger over political scandals and the impact of a global recession on greece 's economy .
while the violence generally has subsided in the past few days , small groups of hooded youngsters with fire bombs are still rampaging at night in the capital , fighting running battles with riot police and smashing shops .
prime minister costas karamanlis has pledged to protect people and property , but he has drawn widespread criticism for not acting quickly and decisively to tackle the revolt .
an opinion poll published by ethnos newspaper on sunday said 83.3 percent of greeks were unhappy with the government 's response to the violence .
discontent was high -- at 65.6 percent -- even among supporters of karamanlis ' new democracy party , which has a one-seat majority in parliament and already lagged behind the socialist opposition before the riots .
another survey , in kathimerini daily , put disapproval of the government at 68 percent with 60 percent of those polled saying the riots were a social uprising rather than an outburst by an isolated fringe of violent protesters .
more demonstrations are planned for monday , including one outside the police headquarters in athens .
eight days of clashes have caused 200 million euros ( $ 265.3 million ) of damage in athens alone .
the city was calm on sunday but broken shop windows bore witness to the latest , sporadic riots overnight , when a few hundred youths wearing gas masks attacked a government building , four shops and two banks .
" i 'm tired of coming to the shop every night to check the damages .
you think it 's going to calm down and then it starts again , " said anna pavlidou , manager of a central athens mobile phone store that has been repeatedly attacked and looted .
" the government should assume its responsibilities and resign .
it did n't handle it well .
if it had , we would n't have 355 damaged shops in athens .
i mean , we will not be able to open until christmas , " she told reuters .
" someone has to understand the deeper reasons for this -- poverty , high unemployment -- and solve it radically . " .
the policeman charged with killing alexandros grigoropoulos has been jailed along with a colleague pending trial , while more than 400 protesters have been detained over the unrest .
in central athens , where even in calmer times barely a week goes by without a demonstration , riot police with teargas canisters have been manning street corners at night , especially in the leftist exarchia neighborhood where the boy was shot .
'it sounds like a war zone' : chaos in brooklyn as 100 teenagers 'riot' on the streets following vigil of 16 - year - old who was shot dead by nypd plainclothes cops .
two plainclothes nypd officers shot and killed a 16 - year - old brooklyn resident after police say he pointed a gun at officers on saturday .
when police approached to speak with the young man , cops say he turned on them and aimed a . 357 caliber revolver at them .
peaceful protest for kimani gray turned chaotic tonight as 100 people rioted and threw bottles at officers .
published : 02 : 31 gmt , 12 march 2013 | updated : 22 : 19 gmt , 12 march 2013 .
an orderly protest over the death of an armed 16 - year - old turned into a riot in brooklyn tonight after young people started lashing out at nypd officers .
between 60 and 100 rioters gathered around church and snyder ave . in east flatbush and threw bottles and other debris at police , witnesses said , following a vigil for kimani gray , 16 , who was shot dead by two plainclothes officers over the weekend .
one person has been arrested , though no injuries have been reported .
they were lashing out at the nypd , who they believe are responsible for the teen " s death .
an nypd spokesperson confirmed to mailonline that there was a  large disorderly group throwing bottles at police . " .
they said the protest began around 8 : 30pm tonight but the crowd is being dispersed by police .
new york city councilman jumaane d . williams , who represents the area of flatbush , has been tweeting live updates , and said :  i " m in the middle of the riot action at church and snyder in my district .
right now , things are tense .
young people have expressed anger . " .
mr williams later described the scene of chaos in flatbush , saying that garbage cans had been overturned and people smashed out windows .
he added that one person had been attacked outside of a local rite aid .
 tonight was a peaceful vigil that devolved into a riot , " he wrote .
 the youth in this community have no outlets for their anger , no community . " .
another twitter user who is apparently at the site said that the riot 'sounds like a war zone . ' .
a source told the new york daily news that the protest began some 20 blocks from where gray was fatally shot .
the march went past the 67th presinct station , where officers impeded the protest " s progress .
that " s when the peaceful protest got out of hand .
the unnamed nypd officer told the daily news that they saw teens jumping on cars and throwing bottles at officers .
gray , 16 , was shot eleven times after police said he pulled out a . 357 revolver in east flatbush , brooklyn over the weekend .
police say they came across a group of young men on saturday evening and saw gray acting suspiciously , walking away from his friends when he saw the officers approach .
officers say the 16 - year old began to adjust his waistband and started to act suspiciously .
gray then turned around and pointed a . 357 caliber gun at them , according to police accounts .
when the two plainclothes officers saw the weapon they responded by opening fire .
the teen was rushed to kings county hospital but he later died .
however , witnesses to the shooting say that the nypd's account is wrong .
gray " s older sister , mahnefah gray , 19 , told the new york times that one of the witnesses of the shooting told her that her brother was only fixing his belt .
she added that her brother had too much  common sense " to point a loaded gun at an officer , and doubted that he was even carrying a gun at all .
a woman who lives across the street from the scene of the shooting told the times that gray was calling out :  please don " t let me die ! " and said the officers yelled back :  stay down , or we " ll shoot you again . " .
grey lived in nearby crown heights , but had grown up in east flatbush and returned there to visit friends .
his older brother , jamar , was killed in a car accident two years ago .
according to witnesses , when the two cops arrived on the scene in an unmarked car , gray was part of a group of six teenagers standing by the side of the road .
one of gray's friends , devonte brown told the new york post : 'as the cops opened fire , he was screaming ,  stop !
i " m not running ! " .
his friends have not explained exactly what caused the police officers to shoot .
police say gray's gun was loaded with four bullets but have not yet determined whether the teenager fired his weapon .
gray had been in trouble with the law before , having been arrested three times since october and had previously been charged with grand larceny and inciting a riot .
rioters in greece attack police station , banks .
rioting youths in the greek capital attacked a police station , stores and banks and fought running battles with police late saturday , authorities said , as violent protests against a police killing continued for the seventh straight day .
the clashes broke out as candlelit vigils were being held to mark a week since the police shooting of a 15-year-old boy , which triggered the riots that are threatening the stability of the government .
the clashes broke out as candlelit vigils were being held to mark a week since the police shooting of a 15-year-old boy , which triggered the riots that are threatening the stability of the government .
youths - some on foot , others riding motorcycles - attacked a police station with petrol bombs in central athens as well as at least three banks , several stores and a government building , police said .
several hundred protesters set up burning barricades and attacked police with rocks and flares. riot police fired tear gas and chased the youths through parts of the city .
the protesters chanted " murderers out " and used laser pointers to target police for attack .
violence has wracked greece every day since the death of teenager alexandros grigoropoulos .
the riots in cities throughout the country has left at least 70 people injured .
hundreds of stores have been smashed and looted , and more than 200 people have been arrested .
while most of the protesters have been peaceful , the tone of the demonstrations has been set by a violent fringe .
and more young people have been willing to join those fringe elements than in the past .
hundreds of school children holding candles gathered peacefully saturday outside parliament and at the site where teenager was shot .
outside parliament , they left candles spelling out the name " alex " in front of a line of riot policemen .
the young protesters promised to remain on the streets until their concerns - including opposition to increasingly unpopular government and worry over economic issues - are addressed .
" speaking as an anarchist , we want to create those social conditions that will generate more uprisings and to get more people out in the streets to demand their rights , " said 32-year-old protester paris kyriakides .
" in the end , the violence that we use is minimal in comparison to the violence of the system uses , like the banks , " kyriakides said .
earlier saturday , a crowd of about 1,000 people attended a peaceful sit-down demonstration in athens and another 1,000 demonstrated in the northern city of thessaloniki .
one 16-year-old student at the athens demonstration , who gave only her first name , veatriki , said young people her age felt their voices were being heard immediately when they smashed a shop window or a car .
she also said young people want to see the policemen involved in the shooting punished and the police disarmed .
the two officers involved in the boy 's shooting have been arrested .
one was charged with murder and the other as an accomplice .
the circumstances surrounding the shooting remain unclear .
giorgos kyrtsos , publisher of the city press and free sunday newspapers , said the violent demonstrations revealed widespread public discontent .
" we are entering a long period of economic crisis , " kyrtsos said .
" but there is also a deepening social crisis , combined with a weakened state .
we are truly at a crossroads . " .
kyrtsos , a conservative , was highly critical of the government 's handling of the protests .
" this is the only government i remember that has managed to alienate both the rebellious youth and the law-and-order crowd , " he said .
" it has nothing to offer to anybody . " .
christmas shoppers cautiously returned to central athens earlier saturday , but many stores had boarded up their windows instead of replacing the glass , for fear of further violence .
athens mayor nikitas kaklamanis greeted shoppers with the city 's brass band .
" people came up to me and were telling me that it was the first time they had smiled in days , " the mayor said .
brooklyn vigil for slain teen killed by nypd snowballs into full blown riot .
a candle light vigil turned violent monday night in east flatbush , brooklyn .
dozens gathered to remember 16 - year - old kimani gray .
nypd officers shot and killed the teen late saturday night .
what started as a march , soon turned into a riot .
video posted on youtube from occupybloomberg " s ustream showed angry people screaming at the nypd .
according to reports from the scene , people vandalized property , looted and threw bottles at police .
the nypd said one person was arrested for disorderly conduct .
overnight and into early tuesday morning , police barricaded snyder avenue in front of the 67th precinct in east flatbush .
police still wearing helmets , guarded the block .
" tonight , we saw an explosion of anger from the youth in my community .
we have talked about this anger for years , but still the resources have not come to address it , " said brooklyn councilman jumaane williams in a press release following the riot .
" we have talked about the corrosive relationship between our community and the nypd , but still the mayor and the commissioner have failed to address the root causes of this tension .
tonight , we saw that tension turn in a destructive manner .
i cannot and will not condone the damage caused to property or to person . " .
according to police , kimani gray had a . 38 caliber rohm " s industry revolver and he allegedly pointed it at the plain clothes officers saturday night when they approached a group on east 52nd street in east flatbush .
the officers fired their weapons and the teenager was pronounced dead at kings county hospital .
the gun was found at the scene , said the nypd .
ellen degeneres to host oscars .
august 2 , 2013 | 08 : 06am pt .
talkshow host returns for second oscar tour .
and the next host of the academy awards is ... ellen degeneres .
it will be degeneres " second tour of duty as oscar host , having previously emceed the 79th annual academy awards in 2007 and earning an emmy nomination .
the popular syndicated talkshow host also fronted the emmys in 2001 and 2005 ( co - hosting them in 2003 ) .
" i am so excited to be hosting the oscars for the second time , " degeneres said , joking that " you know what they say -- the third time " s the charm . " .
" we are thrilled to have ellen degeneres host the oscars , " said zadan and meron jointly .
" it is an honor to welcome back ellen degeneres as the host of the biggest entertainment celebration of the year , " said abc entertainment group prexy paul lee .
over the last eight years , the 2007 oscars hosted by degeneres stands as the top rated in both adults 18 - 49 ( 14 . 1 rating / 33 share ) and women 25 - 54 ( 19 . 2 / 40 ) .
even as oscar organizers on friday unveiled hugh jackman as the host of their gala film awards , the prospect of a u.s. actors strike was casting a long shadow over whether hollywood 's big show would go on as usual .
the academy awards ' february 22 date puts it directly in the path of a potential walkout by screen actors guild members who vote next month on whether to give union leaders permission to call a strike in stalemated contract talks with major studios .
movie making by the big studios has wound down since late june in anticipation of labor strife , compounding a general slowdown from the u.s. recession .
the tension has only been heightened by fatigue from a tumultuous 14-week hollywood writers strike that ended in february and cost the los angeles area economy around $ 3 billion as production stopped on most prime-time tv shows .
" a strike , if one occurred , would be nothing short of horrible , " said ron howard , the former actor and oscar-winning director of " a beautiful mind " whose latest film , " frost/nixon , " is considered a strong oscar contender .
" the timing could n't be worse , " he said on thursday .
actor leonardo dicaprio , who on thursday earned a golden globe nomination for his work in " revolutionary road , " said strike concerns are hitting " everyone . " .
" it 's really important that we come up with a solution , " he said .
" these are unheard-of times , and no one can predict what is going to happen " with the u.s. economy .
sag 's dark cloud .
the oscars , given out by the academy of motion picture arts and sciences , are annually hollywood 's glitziest night .
putting the show in jeopardy , however , was this week 's announcement by sag that strike authorization ballots will be mailed to its 120,000 members on january 2 and tallied on january 23 , a full month before the oscars .
that sequence of events raises the prospect of a-list stars boycotting the honors to avoid crossing their own union 's picket lines -- or even carrying picket signs themselves .
the same dynamic came into play last january when a work stoppage by 10,500 writers guild of america members threw the awards season into disarray and caused the star-filled golden globe awards to be replaced by a news conference .
only 5.8 million tv viewers tuned-in , far below the globes ' typical 20 million audience .
broadcaster nbc lost an estimated $ 10 million to $ 15 million in advertising revenue .
the writers strike was settled a month later , sparing the academy awards and its network , abc , a similar fate .
but this time around , the oscars are on the firing line and australian actor jackman , star of the " x-men " movies as well as broadway stage shows , may himself have to pull out .
" at this point , we are moving forward with all of our plans to do our show , and of course we are monitoring what is going on , " said academy spokeswoman leslie unger .
sag leaders say they need a credible strike threat to wrest a better contract deal from the studios than the " final " offer management presented before talks collapsed on june 30 .
they stress , however , that a " yes " vote does not automatically put a strike into effect , and it remains uncertain whether sag can muster the support it needs -- 75 percent of those voting -- to pass its authorization .
talks collapsed over issues that included how much actors would get paid for work on the internet , and the financial impact of a possible strike on hollywood remains unclear .
most films slated for release in 2009 already have been shot , meaning the 2010 slate would see the brunt of a strike .
some tv prime-time dramas and sitcoms will have completed production before sag a work stoppage , though a walkout could hinder development of new series for fall 2009 .
8 / 2 / 13 at 1 : 30 pm .
5 thoughts on why the academy picked ellen degeneres as oscar host .
we've got an oscar host !
the academy of motion pictures arts and sciences announced this morning that ellen degeneres would return to the academy awards as emcee , marking her second hosting stint .
over the past few years , ampas has gone to great lengths to pick a host who'd make some noise : whether it was the pairing of james franco and anne hathaway in 2011 , the aborted choice of eddie murphy as host for the 2012 oscars , or seth macfarlane's pick last year , the academy has seemed hell - bent on finding a host who might draw curious viewers -- particularly , the elusive young male demographic -- to the telecast .
world 's sexiest man ' hugh jackman has been roped in to host the 81st annual academy awards ceremony .
according to laurence mark , producer of the telecast , the australian actor has been selected " because we want the ceremony to be fun .
he can hold the screen and he can hold a stage .
it does n't hurt that he looks amazing in a tuxedo and he 's the sexiest man alive , " people quoted him as saying .
the ceremony will take place at the kodak theatre in los angeles on february 22 .
the x men star , who is known for his hard body , he has a softer side too .
jackman sings ballads at home , makes pancakes for son oscar , 8 , daughter ava , 3 , as well as his wife deborra-lee furness .
" deb and my kids have been the best things that have ever happened to me , without a doubt , " he said .
ellen degeneres to host 86th oscars .
friday august 2 , 2013 @ 8 : 13am pdt .
ellen degeneres just tweeted she will be hosting the oscars this year .
it will be her second stint in the job , after hosting the 2007 ceremony and earning an emmy nomination for it .
" it " s official : i " m hosting the #oscars !
i " d like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there goes the orchestra " , the comedian and talk show host said on her twitter feed just now .
the announcement of degeneres as host comes just a couple of days after the election of cheryl boone isaacs , only the third woman to head the academy in its 86 - year history .
when she first hosted in 2007 it was noted that degeneres also became the first openly gay or lesbian host .
of course degeneres , a double - digit emmy winner , was also nominated for an emmy for her oscar - hosting stint in the now - defunct category of outstanding individual performance in a variety or music program .
she also famously hosted the emmys in november 2001 after the show was canceled twice in the wake of the 9 / 11 tragedy .
she returned to host the emmys in 2005 , just three weeks after hurricane katrina .
she also hosted the grammys in 1996 and 1997 .
here " s the academy " s official release .
television icon ellen degeneres will return to host the oscars for a second time , producers craig zadan and neil meron announced today .
the academy awards will be broadcast live on oscar sunday , march 2 , 2014 , on the abc television network .
" we are thrilled to have ellen degeneres host the oscars , " said zadan and meron .
she is beloved everywhere and we expect that the audience at the dolby theatre , and in homes around the globe , will be as excited by this news as we are . " .
" i am so excited to be hosting the oscars for the second time .
you know what they say -- the third time " s the charm , " said degeneres .
" it is an honor to welcome back ellen degeneres as the host of the biggest entertainment celebration of the year , " said paul lee , president , abc entertainment group .
degeneres hosted the 79th academy awards in 2007 , for which she received a primetime emmy nomination for " outstanding individual performance in a variety or music program . " .
it 's a tough job hosting the academy awards .
it 's supposed to be entertaining , but it 's also a night for the stars to revel in the glory of an oscar win .
and the host has to be edgy and funny , without going over the line and insulting the honorees .
but when it works , as it did in 1992 when tough-guy actor jack palance did push-ups in front of comedian and host billy crystal , only to become the butt of crystal 's jokes for the rest of the night , it makes for memorable moments .
on friday , the organization behind the academy awards named australian actor hugh jackman as the host of february 's annual show .
jackman is the first non-comedian to single-handedly host the show in recent years .
the last time an australian hosted the show was in 1987 , when to " crocodile dundee " star paul hogan shared the stage with actress goldie hawn and comedian chevy chase .
coming off starring in " australia , " which has had only limited box office success since its nov. 26 opening with a total box office take of $ 43 million , jackman will rely on song and dance instead of just jokes to entertain a worldwide audience on oscar night .
he has done well hosting the tony awards , the broadway version of the oscars , but the oscars ' audience is used to comedians on the show .
on a night where hype and pomp rule , the comedian 's role is often to keep the show grounded by injecting a jester 's dose of realism .
jackman 's naming as host prompted a " love it or hate it " reaction here on our news floor in los angeles .
there did n't seem to be much in between , so we thought we 'd leave it to readers to weigh in with their own thoughts .
hugh jackman : an oscar hit or miss ?
ellen degeneres to host 2014 oscars .
august 2 , 2013 .
ellen degeneres was so nice as an oscars host the first time , the academy has asked her to do it twice .
"it's official : i'm hosting the #oscars ! " degeneres tweeted friday .
"i'd like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there goes the orchestra . " .
we'll get to hear more of her quips when she leads the oscars ceremony next march .
degeneres previously hosted the 79th oscars in 2007 , and snagged an emmy nod for her work .
the daytime talk show host follows seth macfarlane , whose hosting of the 2013 academy awards was divisive .
"i am so excited to be hosting the oscars for the second time , " degeneres said in the academy's announcement .
the producers of the academy awards are counting on a mutant wolverine who is people magazine 's reigning sexiest man alive to inject some desperately needed razzle-dazzle into their annual telecast .
hugh jackman , the australian actor known to film audiences for playing a furry comic-book hero in the x-men movies , will be host of the 81st incarnation of the oscars , the academy of motion picture arts and sciences announced on friday .
abc will broadcast the awards show on feb. 22 .
its producers said they hoped to achieve multiple goals with the casting of mr. jackman .
first , there is a desire to put more movie in the annual movie business extravaganza .
jon stewart and ellen degeneres , recent hosts , are both primarily known as television stars .
laurence mark , a co-producer of the oscars telecast , with bill condon , said there was also a desire to steer clear of stand-up comedians .
" we are trying to get away from this late-night talk show rut , " mr. mark said in a telephone interview .
" it seemed to us that we needed to turn a corner and get somebody who is , imagine that , a movie star . " .
mr. jackman 's selection is also an attempt to play to the audience at home , which has been shrinking in recent years .
viewers of the ceremony are overwhelmingly female - the oscars are known in the advertising world as the super bowl for women - and producers clearly expect mr. jackman to turn out that demographic in droves .
" it certainly did not escape us that hugh looks terrific in a tuxedo , " mr. mark said .
with any luck , a host plucked from within the movie industry 's own ranks - and less emphasis on stand-up comedy , which has often been at the expense of people sitting in the audience - will also play well inside the kodak theater .
in recent years the crowd of movie insiders has seemed to respond to hosts with notable coldness .
a representative for mr. jackman said he was walking a red carpet in berlin on behalf of his current film , the epic " australia , " and was unavailable for an interview .
deadlinehollywooddaily.com first reported his selection on the web .
mr. jackman , 40 , has never been nominated for an oscar but has artistic credibility , an important credential for the m.c. of the film awards show .
he has won positive reviews for turns in films like " the prestige " and " kate and leopold . " .
he won a tony award in 2004 for his role in the musical " the boy from oz . " .
he also has experience as an awards show m.c. , winning an emmy in 2005 for his appearance as host of the tonys .
he presided over that ceremony three times .
the oscars are a very different phenomenon from the tonys .
the film honors are an awkward hybrid - a telecast about the movies set in a theater - that require their host to oscillate between jocular chitchat and solemn introductions , while sprinkling in just the right amount of self-deprecation .
serving as host of the three-hour live show requires physical stamina and an ability to hold up under the emotional pressure of knowing that the television audience , while diminished in the united states , numbers several hundred million worldwide .
this year mr. jackman will have the added pressure of serving as the ringmaster of a lavish self-congratulation-a-thon at a time of global economic crisis .
preparing for the job may prove difficult , since producers will most likely need to draw up contingency plans in the event of a screen actors guild strike .
the union , at loggerheads with studios over contract issues big and small , said on wednesday that it would ask its members to authorize a strike .
the union , which will announce the results of the vote in late january , sees its power to wreak havoc with the oscars as prime leverage .
the telecast has come under harsh criticism in recent years as a lumbering snore that takes itself too seriously and lacks spontaneity .
star wattage has dimmed , with many members of the a list refusing to attend unless they are nominated or have a coming film to promote .
a trend toward honoring small , independent movies that most people have not seen has dented viewership .
ratings for last year 's oscars plunged to a record low , with about 32 million people tuning in , compared with 55.3 million a decade ago .
mr. condon and mr. mark , who recently served as the creative team behind the movie " dreamgirls , " are trying to energize the telecast partly by making the ceremony more of a party that celebrates movies in general , not just the elite few selected by academy voters .
" we are still at the preliminary conversation stage about what hugh wants to do , but his theatrical talent certainly does give us reason to do at least one musical number , " mr. mark said .
ellen degeneres to host the oscars .
published august 02 , 2013 .
ellen degeneres will host the oscars for a second time next year , the academy announced friday .
"we are thrilled to have ellen degeneres host the oscars , " producers craig zadan and neil meron said in a statement .
degeneres announced the news in a tweet : "it's official : i'm hosting the #oscars !
i'd like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there goes the orchestra . " .
"i am so excited to be hosting the oscars for the second time .
you know what they say - the third time's the charm , " she added in a statement .
the television personality hosted the 79th academy awards in 2007 , becoming only the second woman to host the ceremony solo , following whoopi goldberg's four stints in 1994 , 1996 , 1999 and 2002 .
he sings , dances , acts on stage and screen , and he 's the " sexiest man alive . " .
hugh jackman does everything but standup comedy - and that 's why the first-time oscars host fulfills the academy 's promise to shake up the show in a way that 's as tough to predict as the winners .
jackman was announced friday as the host of the 81st academy awards , a marked departure from the academy 's standard of big-name comedians .
jon stewart , who hosted in 2008 and 2006 , and ellen degeneres , the 2007 host , were the latest in a line of funny emcees since 1990 .
billy crystal did it eight times , whoopi goldberg took on four , steve martin did it twice and david letterman and chris rock each had a shot .
as the parade of a-list comedians continued , ratings were in steady decline .
but with new producers , a new director , new set designer and even a new music director , the academy has been hinting for months at an all-new look and feel for this year 's oscars telecast on feb. 22 .
having jackman host certainly fits with that theme .
producers laurence mark and bill condon called the australian actor " a consummate entertainer and an internationally renowned movie star . " .
" he also has style , elegance and a sense of occasion , " mark and condon said in a joint statement .
" hugh is the ideal choice to host a celebration of the year 's movies - and to have fun doing it . " .
indeed , jackman can be a mutant superhero ( wolverine from the " x-men " movie franchise ) , a flirtatious singing barker ( billy bigelow in rodgers and hammerstein 's musical " carousel " ) , a determined magician ( " the prestige " ) and a dancing penguin ( " happy feet " ) .
the 40-year-old actor plays a roughhewn cattle driver opposite nicole kidman 's english aristocrat in the new baz luhrmann romantic adventure " australia . " .
jackman was abroad promoting the film friday when his oscar role was announced .
" thirty years ago when i was in sydney watching johnny carson host the oscars with my family , i never imagined that i 'd one day have the chance to be up on that stage myself , " he said in a statement .
" i am very grateful to the academy for giving me this opportunity .
and , excited to be working with larry and bill on what i know will be a fun and memorable celebration . " .
having an entertainer such as jackman host the show necessitates a change in the well-established standard of opening the show with a jokes , said steve pond , author of the 2005 book " the big show : high times and dirty dealings backstage at the academy awards . " .
" the tricky part is that while he 's charming , he 's not the kind of guy to go out there and deliver a comic monologue at the top of the show , " pond said .
" he 's more comfortable with a song and dance , but is a song and dance at the top of the oscars what people want to see ?
it 'll be tricky adopting what he does best to what works at the oscars . " .
but with ratings dropping for all awards shows , it 's worth shaking things up to generate interest - and the academy awards telecast , which posted its lowest ratings ever in february , is n't the only one trying something new .
the emmys added a category - best reality-show host - and divvied the show 's hosting duties among the five nominees .
the results were disastrous .
critics panned the format and the show was one of the least-watched emmys ever .
the grammy awards spiced up its nominations earlier this month by trading its typical staid press conference for a glitzy , live concert special .
ratings-wise , the hourlong show came in fourth among prime-time contenders , behind such dramas as nbc 's " life " and abc 's " private practice . " .
bringing in jackman to host the academy awards is " a stretch for the oscars , but at this stage , it 's worth taking the risk , " pond said .
" he certainly has what it takes to do the gig if some changes are made in what that gig requires . " .
jackman also has award-winning hosting experience .
he won an emmy in 2005 for hosting the 58th annual tony awards in 2004 , when he also took a best-actor tony for his performance in the musical " the boy from oz .
" jackman has never been an oscar nominee , but was nominated for a golden globe for his role in 2001 's romantic film " kate and leopold . " .
he also served as a past presenter on the oscar show .
jackman and his wife , deborra-lee furness , have their own oscar at home - their 8-year-old son , oscar maximillian .
the couple also have a 3-year-old daughter ava .
ellen degeneres to host oscars .
8 : 13 am pdt 8 / 2 / 2013 .
she will make her second appearance as the show's emcee on the march 2 broadcast .
ellen degeneres will host this year's oscars .
degeneres herself announced the news friday morning on twitter , writing , "it's official : i'm hosting the #oscars !
i'd like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there goes the orchestra . " .
choosing degeneres , known for her kindler , gentler humor , signals that the academy's next awards show will have a decidedly different tone than the 85th academy awards , hosted by seth macfarlane , who drew criticism for routines like his song about actresses' nudity on film .
degeneres previously hosted the show in 2007 and earned a primetime emmy nomination for her work .
"i am so excited to be hosting the oscars for the second time .
you know what they say - - the third time's the charm , " degeneres said in a statement .
zadan and meron added : "we are thrilled to have ellen degeneres host the oscars . " .
newly elected academy president boone isaacs said , "i agreed with craig and neil immediately that ellen is the ideal host for this year's show . " .
meanwhile , abc entertainment group president paul lee said , "it is an honor to welcome back ellen degeneres as the host of the biggest entertainment celebration of the year . " .
australian actor hugh jackman was named on friday as host of february 's oscars in a departure from the tradition of picking u.s. comedians on hollywood 's most prestigious night .
the academy of motion pictures arts and sciences , which hands out the world 's top film honors , said jackman , 40 , star of the romantic epic " australia , " will host the televised ceremony for the first time .
the actor , who also starred in the three " x-men " movies and is an award-winning musical theater performer , has hosted broadway 's tony awards three times and last month was named 2008 's " sexiest man alive " by people magazine .
" hugh jackman is a consummate entertainer and an internationally renowned movie star , " said laurence mark and bill condon , the new producers of the televised show .
" he also has style , elegance and a sense of occasion .
hugh is the ideal choice to host a celebration of the year 's movies -- and to have fun doing it , " the pair said in a statement .
oscar nominations for the best movies and performances of 2008 will be announced in january .
the awards will be handed out on february 22 by the academy at the kodak theater in hollywood and will be televised in the united states by the abc network .
jackman 's choice heralds a new direction for the 81st oscar ceremony after recent years of falling tv ratings .
typically , the program has been hosted by u.s. comedians , and in recent years , show organizers have experimented with a variety of hosting styles ranging from political satirist jon stewart , to edgy chris rock and popular ellen degeneres .
mark and condon have axed the famous opening monologue for the february 2009 show , hoping for more spontaneity overall .
they said there may be a stronger element of music and dancing than previously .
" we want it to be more of a party and a celebration and a departure from the late-night talk-show format , " mark told reuters .
mark and condon have a background in musicals and worked together on the 2006 film hit " dreamgirls " .
jackman , who can sing and dance , was " genuinely thrilled " at the offer , mark said , but " he wanted to make sure the format would mesh with his skills . " .
the february 2008 three-hour plus broadcast , hosted for the second time by stewart , hit a low 32 million u.s. viewers and entered the record books as the least-watched oscars ever .
still , even an audience of that size makes the telecast annually one of the most-watched u.s. tv shows .
the broadcast also is televised live in more than 200 countries worldwide .
mark said he and condon planned to get the telecast under three hours , yet still keep the live presentations of awards and acceptance speeches .
ellen degeneres set as oscars host for 2014 academy awards	 .
posted : 08 / 02 / 2013 11 : 10 am edt .
ellen degeneres will host the oscars .
the comedian and talk show host made the announcement via her twitter feed on friday .
degeneres has experience hosting the academy awards : she previously served as emcee during the 2007 ceremony .
"i am so excited to be hosting the oscars for the second time , " degeneres said in a press release announcing the big news .
that degeneres was chosen as host should please critics who were unhappy with this year's master of ceremonies , seth macfarlane .
if only he 'll wear those gold lame pants .
as word got out friday that hugh jackman will be this year 's oscar host , a clip from the 2004 tony telecast of his performance from " the boy from oz " made the rounds .
if you happened to miss the 2004 tonys , jackman , playing the flamboyant australian songwriter peter allen , sang , danced and writhed his way across the stage in a leopard skin top and skin-tight gold lame pants .
will the oscar gift baskets include smelling salts ?
jackman , who has hosted the tonys several times and won an emmy for doing so in 2005 , certainly knows how to hold a stage -- he won a tony for " the boy from oz " -- and by choosing him , first-time oscar producers laurence mark and bill condon are betting that broadway can do what comedy could not .
previous hosts -- jon stewart , ellen degeneres , chris rock -- all followed the traditional stand-up model and the ratings have steadily soured .
obviously a change is required , and though i would lean toward thinking " television " rather than " broadway " ( why , i even wrote a piece about it , for this coming sunday 's calendar , before the host choice was announced ) , jackman is , of course , another way to go .
clearly mark and condon are less concerned with solving the ratings crisis as they are with creating a new vibe for the show .
jackman may have more talent in his little finger than most of us do in our entire bodies , but he does n't have the fan base of degeneres or rock .
if you are among the thousands who loved his hosting of the tonys , you 're probably not only watching the oscars anyway , you 're hosting your own annual oscar party .
yes , jackman was just named people 's sexiest man alive , and yes , he is wolverine of " x-men " but do we want wolverine hosting the oscars ?
probably not .
otherwise , jackman 's movie career has been less than memorable , capped by this year 's box office dud " australia . " .
and as last season 's mercifully short-lived " viva laughlin " proved , one talented person does not a television show make .
or at least not a good television show .
but mark and condon are the team that brought us " dreamgirls , " which actually makes jackman an obvious choice .
there 's nothing wrong with a big broadway-esque opener similar to billy crystal 's famous musical clips , but with more hip action .
beyond that , however , it gets a little worrisome .
the oscars have a prickly relationship with singin ' and dancin ' and as anyone who saw rosie o'donnell 's recent disaster knows , nothing fails bigger than a failed variety show .
what jackman does have in his favor is an unapologetic , unabashed love for , and understanding of , theater .
he is n't snarky and he is n't an outsider .
he is a from-the-bottom-of-his-heart performer who seems utterly happy and at ease in front of an audience .
no doubt those in the kodak will enjoy an energetic and dazzling evening .
how it will play on television remains to be seen .
but maybe it 's time we stopped caring about that so much .
ellen degeneres to host next year " s oscars .
published : august 2 , 2013 .
reaching back to television for a comedy star , the producers of the academy awards telecast announced friday that ellen degeneres would return next year to host the annual oscar ceremony .
the producers , craig zadan and neil meron , caused some backlash last year after giving the job to seth macfarlane , the creator of the " family guy " animated show on the fox network .
ms . degeneres has even less to do with the theatrical movie business than mr . macfarlane does ( his movie " ted " preceded his appearance ) but she is well liked in hollywood and her performance as the host of the show in 2007 was widely praised .
in typical fashion , she released a jokey response to the honor : " i am so excited to be hosting the oscars for the second time .
you know what they say -- the third time " s the charm . " .
the academy of motion picture arts and sciences announced friday that hugh jackman will be the host of the 81st annual oscars on feb. 22 at the kodak theatre .
the lanky australian , who was recently named people magazine 's sexiest man alive , is best known for playing wolverine in the " x-men " franchise , including the upcoming " x-men origins : wolverine , " and for his romantic adventure roles in the current period drama " australia " and as a vampire hunter in " van helsing . " .
not exactly the wild and crazy comedy type that has been hosting the oscars for the last 20 years , a list that includes names such as billy crystal , david letterman , steve martin , whoopi goldberg , jon stewart and ellen degeneres .
in addition to looking great in a tux , the 40-year-old jackman has tv hosting experience .
he emceed both the 2004 and 2005 tony awards , and won an emmy award for his first go at hosting that award show .
" he is so sparkling and personable , and he delivers , " said academy president sid ganis .
" i saw him recently at a motion picture home event on the sony lot .
he is charming and pleasant .
the other thing is .
he loves [ being the host ] .
he loves the patter .
he likes to wink his eye at an audience and have fun . " .
while it 's been more than two decades since a non-comedian was one of the academy award hosts , the jackman announcement is hardly unprecedented .
numerous actors , directors and even producers have served as master of ceremonies .
douglas fairbanks , laurence olivier , james stewart , ingrid bergman , jane fonda , alan alda , claudette colbert , fredric march , agnes moorhead , thelma ritter , fred astaire and charlton heston have all played host on oscar night .
" we 're sort of going back to the pre-bob hope days a little bit , " said oscar producer laurence mark , explaining that the decision to return to an actor as host was influenced by a desire to change what he called the " late-night talk-show " feel of past programs .
" we wanted to take the show to another form , " mark said .
" hugh seemed to be the perfect person .
the lovely thing about the show is it is a tv show set in a theater about the movies , so the fact that he is a movie star ... he 's also an extraordinary stage presence and he does actually have an emmy award for hosting the tonys .
he fits all three bills . " .
" thirty years ago when i was in sydney watching johnny carson host the oscars with my family , i never imagined that i 'd one day have the chance to be up on that stage myself , " jackman said in a statement .
the academy is hoping that jackman 's international appeal will help bring more viewers to the annual event that is telecast on abc .
ratings for the oscar telecast have declined sharply in recent years , especially among young-adult audiences .
the 2008 telecast delivered 32 million total viewers , a 24 % drop compared with the previous year 's ceremony , according to figures from nielsen media research .
the most-watched academy awards in recent years was in 1998 , when " titanic " won best picture .
a total of 55.3 million people tuned in to watch who took home the golden statuettes .
" we hope [ jackman 's ] appeal is going to broaden us out , " ganis said .
" we all know the ratings are down , but we are going to have something pretty special . " .
ellen degeneres returns to host the oscars .
posted august 2nd , 2013 at 5 : 19 pm .
television icon ellen degeneres will return to host the oscars for a second time , producers craig zadan and neil meron announced today .
" we are thrilled to have ellen degeneres host the oscars , " said zadan and meron .
" i am so excited to be hosting the oscars for the second time .
you know what they say - the third time's the charm , " said degeneres .
" i agreed with craig and neil immediately that ellen is the ideal host for this year " s show , " said cheryl boone isaacs , academy president .
" it is an honor to welcome back ellen degeneres as the host of the biggest entertainment celebration of the year , " said paul lee , president , abc entertainment group .
"we very much look forward to having her back on abc for oscar sunday . " .
degeneres hosted the 79th academy awards in 2007 , for which she received a primetime emmy nomination for " outstanding individual performance in a variety or music program . " .
now that it 's been confirmed that hugh jackman will be hosting the 81st annual academy awards , instantly upping the annual ceremony 's overall attractiveness , the ampersand would like to offer some heartfelt advice to the first-time oscar host .
true , jackman held his own just fine as the host of both the 2004 and 2005 tony awards , earning an emmy for the former , but this is a whole new ballgame .
so without further ado , hugh , a list of dos and don'ts when hosting the academy awards .
do keep jokes tight , snappy and to-the-point , a la jon stewart .
stewart pulled off a television miracle last year when he hosted the 2007 oscars only 11 days after the wga writer 's strike ended , meaning that his jokes and opening speech were last-minute writes .
this did n't seem to dampen stewart 's usual comedic flair .
keeping a constant string of quick ( and often political ) one-liners coming at the audience , who had to keep on their toes so as not to miss anything , he made sure that the ceremonies did n't get bogged down , keeping things lively .
my personal favourite quip .
" oscar is 80 this year , which makes him now automatically the front-runner for the republican nomination . " .
a " john mccain is so old " joke is never in bad taste !
stewart also oozed confidence , despite lackluster reviews of his hosting job in 2006 .
do channel johnny carson .
carson is considered the epitome of the oscar host .
he hosted the ceremony five times and found that magical place where a joke is just biting enough , but does n't sting .
" i see some new faces here , especially on the old ones , " he joked in one opening speech .
see ?
slightly scathing , but playful .
after all , the last thing you want to do is piss off your entire industry .
do allow yourself to get star-struck .
even the hollywood heavy-weights that host the oscars are allowed to be overwhelmed by the folks the statuettes are being presented to .
while obviously a part of her act , there was something very endearing about ellen degeneres pausing in her host spiel to snap a myspace picture of her and clint eastwood and letting the audience know what a thrill the experience of hosting for them was .
nothing 's going to get the audience on your side like admitting they they impress you .
do go big .
hollywood has never been about self-restraint or simplicity .
when celebrating the movie industry you 've got to be lavish .
while jackman has a certain composed air about him and oozes class ( have you seen a picture of him in a tux ? ) he could benefit from a spectacular entrance like whoopi goldberg 's in 1999 ( she waltzed on stage in full queen elizabeth get-up ) .
it 's hollywood : go big , baby .
do watch the time .
since the introduction of the play-off music that cuts award recipients off when they get too long-winded ( is there anything more embarrassing than watching an a-lister chase the microphone as its lowered into the stage in order to get that last thank-you in ? ) , the oscars have been trimmer in recent years .
but just as dangerous as the ceremony going over is it running short .
it happened in 1959 .
then host jerry lewis forced that year 's winners to dance awkwardly around the stage in order to fill the last twenty minutes of his broadcast .
mortifying .
avoid at all costs .
do n't appropriate .
it will always be funny when billy crystal relives the year 's greatest films ( or rather , dodges certain death within them ) in an intricate opening montage .
he 's done it eight times already and it has yet to get old .
that being said , it 's crystal 's thing .
jackman will have to come up with his own trademark hosting quirk .
might i suggest flashy , high-kicking song and dance numbers ?
do n't do anything that david letterman did .
enough said .
do n't be afraid to be abusive or controversial .
while no one ever wants to see a repeat of michael moore 's rant in 2001 , it 's the snippy , daring jokes and comments that are remembered , like steve martin 's improvistation right after the aforementioned tirade .
comedian ellen degeneres picked to host 2014 oscars .
fri aug 2 , 2013 6 : 50pm edt .
comedian ellen degeneres will make her second appearance as an academy awards host next year , organizers said on friday , in a move widely seen as a less provocative choice for hollywood's highest honors after a ribald performance by seth macfarlane .
degeneres , the star of her own daytime talk show "ellen , " first hosted the oscars in 2007 , becoming only the second woman to fill that exalted role alone , after whoopi goldberg .
"i am so excited to be hosting the oscars for the second time , " degeneres said in a statement .
"you know what they say - the third time's the charm . " .
"i'd like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there goes the orchestra , " the comedian added on twitter .
degeneres , 55 , earned an emmy nomination for her performance in 2007 in which she departed from traditional oscar hosting decorum and ventured into the audience for spot gags , at one point handing director martin scorsese a script of her own .
"choosing degeneres , known for her kindler , gentler humor , signals that the academy's next awards show will have a decidedly different tone than the 85th academy awards , " trade magazine the hollywood reporter wrote .
degeneres also earned praise for her performance as the host of tv's emmy awards in 2001 , which was twice delayed because of the september 11 attacks , memorably lightening the somber mood by asking , "what would bug the taliban more than seeing a gay woman in a suit surrounded by jews ? " .
the announcement of degeneres as host also comes on the heels of hollywood marketing executive cheryl boone isaacs being elected as the first african american president of the 6 , 000 - member academy , which has made an effort to diversify its ranks after coming under fire for being too male , old and white .
trade publication variety saw the choice of degeneres as a continuation of the academy's "year of the woman , " writing that the oscars "will put women in the driver's seat . " .
and the legitimization of funnybooks continues , as today the academy of motion picture arts and sciences has announced that wolverine himself will be hosting the 81st academy awards , proving once again that he 's the best there is at what he does - even hosting a major awards ceremony !
okay , so it 's a bit of a stretch there , but regardless , today it was announced that one of our own , hugh jackman , will be the host of the ceremony , televised live on sunday , february 22 , 2009 , from the kodak theatre at hollywood and highland center on abc .
while it 's certainly clear that jackman has come into his own as one of hollywood 's top leading men of both stage and screen , what us geeks know him best as is wolverine from both the " x-men " series of films as well as next year 's " x-men origins : wolverine . " .
in a statement released today by the academy , producers had this to say about their choice of jackman as the telecast 's host , " hugh jackman is a consummate entertainer and an internationally renowned movie star .
he also has style , elegance and a sense of occasion .
hugh is the ideal choice to host a celebration of the year 's movies - and to have fun doing it . " .
ellen degeneres to host oscars in 2014 .
this will be second time hosting for the daytime talkshow star who will follow on from seth macfarlane's savaged 2013 stint .
the comedian ellen degeneres announced on friday that she is to return as host of the academy awards , the second time she has been tasked with saving the oscars a year after a poorly received performer .
for the 2014 show , she follows a heavily criticised performance this year by the family guy creator seth macfarlane .
in 2007 , she put the oscars back on an even keel after poor reviews for the satirist jon stewart in 2006 .
"i am so excited to be hosting the oscars for the second time .
you know what they say -- the third time's the charm , " degeneres said in a statement .
she is a safe bet for the academy , following an outraged reaction to the misogynistic jokes that peppered macfarlane's script .
while macfarlane's performance generated high ratings for the broadcast -- 40 . 3 million people watched , 2% higher than the year before -- he said he would not host the oscars again because of the negative response .
degeneres however , has a history of well - received hosting gigs .
she was nominated for a primetime emmy for her performance as oscars host in 2007 .
she also garnered positive responses as a two - time emmy awards host , carrying the ceremony shortly after 9 / 11 and then after hurricane katrina .
her previous oscar gig , in which martin scorsese's the departed took home the top prize , was watched by 39 . 9 million people .
degeneres made the announcement on twitter on friday and said : "it's official : i'm hosting the #oscars !
i'd like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there goes the orchestra . " .
academy award producers craig zadan and neil meron said in a statement : "we are thrilled to have ellen degeneres host the oscars . " .
27 november , 2005 .
did the earth move for you ?
because it didn't down here at cell block g . dubai experienced a slight "tremor" today , after a more serious earthquake in southern iran , resulting in the evacuation of emirates towers and a few other scrapers .
"witnesses in high - rise buildings said they felt the ground shaking beneath them for about a minute .
many residents evacuated their buildings and waited on the streets . " .
expect endless earthquake experts in the papers tomorrow , such as the prophetic dr azm al homoud .
"we should stop saying the uae is not in an earthquake prone area .
i must say we are near major epicentres across the arabian gulf and fall within the collision area . " .
inmates in the far southern gulags miss out on everything .
cut off by distance , traffic and general lethargy : the forgotten folk in the shadow of the jebel .
earthquake levels villages on iranian island of qeshm .
ten people are killed and about 50 hurt .
u . s . geological survey puts the magnitude at 6 . 1 .
november 28 , 2005 .
ten people were killed and at least 50 injured when an earthquake razed mud - brick villages on the persian gulf island of qeshm off iran's southern coast sunday , officials and state media said .
tehran's seismologic center put the quake's magnitude at 5 . 9 , but the u . s . geological survey in golden , colo . , said it was 6 . 1 .
a magnitude 6 quake can cause severe damage .
the temblor was felt across the gulf in oman and the united arab emirates .
state - run tv reported that the island's airport sustained minor damage , and part of a hospital collapsed .
no further details on structural damage were provided .
state media said three strong aftershocks were felt .
"the earthquake was really strong , and people poured into the streets in panic .
my husband immediately rushed off to one of the stricken villages , " said sara sadeqi , 22 , a homemaker in qeshm city .
state television quoted the disaster center in the province of hormozgan as saying 10 people were killed .
qeshm gov . heidar alishvandi said 50 were injured .
mohsen kazemi from iran's red crescent relief agency said the four hardest - hit villages were tonban , gavarzin , khaledin and gourian .
qeshm is the biggest island in the gulf and is a free - trade zone with a population of more than 100 , 000 .
it is famed for its palm forests , and its beaches are much loved by tourists and nesting sea turtles .
quake hits island off south iran , five hurt : media .
a 5.6 magnitude earthquake hit an island off iran 's southern coast on sunday , injuring five people and damaging buildings , iranian media said .
the tremor struck an area around the town of dargahan on qeshm island , at the entrance to the gulf through which 40 percent of the world 's traded oil passes .
" so far only the collapse of walls of houses in the villages of zainabieh and koohi has been reported , " qeshm governor mehdi irannejad told isna news agency .
another news agency quoted the governor as saying five people had received treatment after being injured by the quake , which struck seven km ( 4 miles ) east of dargahan .
the governor told iranian media that 2,000 tents were ready in case they were needed , and medical teams with supplies and rescue equipment had been sent to check villages near dargahan .
iran , the world 's fourth-largest oil producer , is criss-crossed by faultlines and often experiences earthquakes .
a powerful quake with a magnitude of 6.1 struck southern iran in september near the port city of bandar abbas , on the mainland near qeshm island , killing at least seven people and injuring 40 , 15 of them on qeshm .
last updated : monday , 28 november 2005 , 02 : 24 gmt .
ten dead in southern iran quake .
a powerful earthquake has hit southern iran , killing at least 10 people , injuring dozens more and damaging several villages , officials say .
the 6 . 1 - magnitude quake struck qeshm island , home to 120 , 000 people , and the city of bandar abbas , state media said .
on qeshm island , between half and two - thirds of homes in five villages had been damaged , officials said .
the quake , which struck at 1353 ( 1023 gmt ) , was felt in the neighbouring gulf states of oman and the uae .
iran sits in a volatile earthquake region and is regularly struck by damaging quakes .
a 6 . 7 - strength quake killed more than 26 , 000 people in the ancient city of bam in december 2003 .
'we panicked' .
the us geological survey put the epicentre of sunday's quake at about 58km ( 36 miles ) south - west of bandar abbas .
heydar alishbandi , governor of qeshm island , said five villages had been badly hit , but the worst - affected areas appeared to be in the less - populated west .
helicopters ferried the injured to hospital but the authorities say the rescue effort is now winding down .
mr alishbandi told the afp news agency he was not expecting the death toll to rise .
the bbc's frances harrison in tehran says in one incident a number of children suffered broken legs as they rushed to evacuate their school .
the initial tremor lasted just over 10 seconds , she says , and there have been at least four aftershocks of around 4 . 0 .
qeshm is a popular tourist destination in the mouth of the persian gulf .
it has a free trade zone and a commercial and fishing port as well as a sanctuary for the conservation of turtles .
the main town on qeshm still has power , water and electricity connections and officials say they are sending relief goods such as tents to those who have lost their homes .
"we were panicked .
i saw an injured person with blood on their clothes being taken to a local hospital , " one woman in qeshm told afp .
there were reports of people fleeing buildings in the larger city of bandar abbas , a major port , but no indications of serious damage .
the surrounding area has not been hit by a quake in more than 25 years .
a 6 . 4 - magnitude quake hit the town of zarand in iran's kerman province in february , killing hundreds of people .
five wounded by quake in southern iran .
an earthquake measuring 5.6 on the richter scale jolted qeshm island off iran 's southern coast on sunday , followed by several aftershocks on monday .
the tremor struck an area around the town of dargahan on qeshm island , at the entrance to the persian gulf , injuring five people and damaging buildings .
the seismological network of the geophysics institute of tehran university registered the quake at 17:06 hours local time ( 13:36 gmt ) .
the epicenter of the quake was located in an area 55.96 degrees in longitude and 26.94 degrees in latitude .
the quake has been followed by frequent aftershocks varying from 2.8 to 3.8 degrees on the richter scale on monday .
" so far only the collapse of walls of houses in the villages of zainabieh and koohi has been reported , " qeshm governor mehdi irannejad said .
the governor also said that five people had received treatment after being injured by the quake , which struck seven km ( 4 miles ) east of dargahan .
the governor said that 2,000 tents were ready in case they were needed , and medical teams with supplies and rescue equipment had been sent to check villages near dargahan .
residents in dubai and the northern emirates also felt the quake .
11 / 28 / 05		 .
aftershocks jolt iran's qeshm island , death toll rises to 10 .
the sixth aftershock shook this southern iranian island in the persian gulf on monday as death toll from a strong earthquake a day before rose to 10 .
the new death toll came after the bodies of two more victims were found in the village of ziranag which is one of the 12 worst - hit villages in the quake , qeshm governor heydar alishvandi said .
he said search was going on for several people who were reported to be missing .
as many as 80 people were also wounded .
alishvandi said some of the injured were transferred by helicopter to the provincial capital of bandar abbas on the coast , including several who were in critical condition .
the governor stated that as many as 2 , 000 people in rural regions needed accommodation , half of whom had been given temporary housing .
he cited tents , blankets , canned food and drinking water as the most needed items .
alishvandi said the first truck of public aid donations , including tents , blankets , canned food and water tanks were sent to the affected regions monday morning .
meanwhile , the head of the interior ministry's natural disasters headquarters , abbas jazayeri , said that the situation on the qeshm island was under control .
he said relief workers had completed the shipment of urgent needs including foodstuff , tents and blankets to all affected villages .
but residents at the village of gavarzin complained that relief operations were slow .
speaking to irna , they said they had not received aid almost a day after the quake .
"houses in the village of gavarzin have been destroyed 100 percent and we have now no refuge to take , " jassem chabok said , adding all their furniture had been buried under rubble .
a series of aftershocks have hit the island since it was first rocked by a magnitude - 5 . 9 earthquake early sunday afternoon .
the seismological bases of tehran university registered a quake measuring 3 . 8 on the richter scale at 09 : 10 hours ( 0440 gmt ) on monday .
the earthquake knocked down power in rural areas , sinking them into darkness .
local officials were struggling monday to restore electricity .
flights from and into the international qeshm airport were resumed monday morning .
the airport received minor damage in the quake .
the tremor also damaged hospitals on the island , including one which was reported to have stopped providing medical service .
the worst hit villages sustained between 40 and 80 percent damage .
a team of experts from the governorate of the hormuzgan province arrived in the affected areas monday to assess damage to infrastructure .
the head of the team , alireza safa , estimated that between 50 and 70 percent of the industrial structure in the 12 worst - hit villages might have been destroyed .
qeshm , a 1 , 500 - square - kilometer island off the coast southwest of bandar abbas and 1 , 500 kilometers south of tehran , has a population of more than 100 , 000 .
iranians are still haunted by harrowing images of the world's worst disaster in december 2003 , in which more than 31 , 000 people were killed in the ancient city of bam .
the country is prone to earthquakes and tremors of lower magnitude are usual occurrences .
a strong 5.6 -magnitude earthquake jolted part of qeshm island in the gulf off iran 's southern hormozgan province at 17:06 pm ( 1336 gmt ) on sunday , state television reported , cited by afp .
according to the student isna news agency , the quake on the outskirts of dargahan , a small town on the island , injured two people .
" two people from zinbi village were hurt but their general condition is satisfactory , " qeshm governor mehdi irannejad was quoted as saying .
houses in two villages were also reported damaged , he added .
posted 11 / 27 / 2005 7 : 21 am .
updated 11 / 27 / 2005 3 : 41 pm .
strong earthquake jolts southern iran , felt in oman .
an earthquake measuring at least magnitude - 5 . 9 shook a sparsely populated area of southern iran on sunday , flattening seven villages and killing 10 people , officials said .
the temblor was felt as far away as oman and the united arab emirates .
heidar alishvandi , the governor of qeshm , was quoted by state - run television as saying rescue teams were deployed to the affected area and people in the wrecked villages moved quickly to safely .
another provincial official , ghasem karami , told the associated press that high casualties were not expected because the area was not heavily developed .
tehran's seismologic center said the quake measured magnitude - 5 . 9 , but the u . s . geological survey in golden , colo . , said it was a magnitude - 6 . 1 temblor .
a magnitude - 6 . 0 quake can cause severe damage .
iran's seismologic center said the epicenter was in the waters of the persian gulf between the port city of bandar abbas and qeshm island .
the usgs said the quake was 35 miles southwest of bandar abbas .
masoud dalman , head of hormozgan province's emergency affairs , said several buildings on qeshm island were damaged .
the island , which has about 200 , 000 residents , is about 940 miles south of tehran , the capital .
shahram alamdari , head of the rescue unit for the iranian red crescent , said two helicopters were evacuating injured from qeshm to bandar abbas , a city of 500 , 000 people that also was jolted by the quake .
iranian television ran video from qeshm showing minor damages to some buildings and a few injured being taken to hospitals .
the report said the villages of karavan and kousheh were worst hit , but no footage was shown from those sites .
the quake cut telephone links between qeshm island and the mainland , the report said .
in oman and the united arab emirates , buildings were evacuated and people fled into the streets .
"power and water supplies were not affected , " said alireza khorshidzadeh , a local journalist .
"people poured into the streets , fearing aftershocks . " .
in dubai , one of the seven emirates of the uae , several buildings in the skyscraper - lined central business district were evacuated .
they included the twin emirates towers , the highest buildings on the main street , where many international corporations and dubai government institutions have offices .
"it lasted around 30 seconds or so -- you could feel the building moving and the coffee cups shaking , " said public relations executive bina mathews .
iran is located on a number of seismic fault lines and , on average , experiences at least one slight quake every day .
the last major quake to hit southern iran was in february , when a magnitude - 6 . 4 temblor rocked zarand , a town of about 15 , 000 people in kerman province 602 miles southeast of tehran .
it killed 612 people and injured more than 1 , 400 , leveling several villages and leaving thousands of people homeless .
quake shakes southern iran , damages residential buildings .
an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.6 on the richter scale shook the southern iranian island of qeshm and caused damage to residential buildings in villages on sunday , isna news agency reported .
several residential units in the villages kavouhi and zinabieh in the dargehan area were damaged and two villagers slightly injured , the governor of qeshm , mehdi iran-nejad , told isna .
relief aid and medical teams have already been dispatched to the quake site , the official said .
the same island was hit by a 6.1 quake in september .
that temblor killed at least six people , injured almost 50 and caused heavy damage to residential units in september .
iran villagers shelter in tents after killer quake .
nov 28 , 2005 .
iranian rescue workers handed out blankets , food and water monday to survivors of a powerful earthquake on a gulf island that killed 10 people and forced villagers to spend the night in tents .
power was restored to the afflicted villages on the gulf island of qeshm after a blackout caused by the quake , which struck on sunday with a force of about 6 . 0 on the richter scale .
"we have distributed the needed tents , blankets , fresh water and food to survivors , " the governor - general of hormouzgan province , abdolreza sheikholeslami , told state television .
he said 30 of the 80 wounded remained in hospital after the tremor , which destroyed or damaged an estimated 1 , 500 mudbrick houses in about 15 villages on the island and was felt across the gulf in the united arab emirates .
"most of the buildings in the villages are not safe to live in any more .
however , by nightfall all those who need tents will be provided with one , " the head of the provincial natural disaster service , massoud dalman , told the television .
qeshm island governor heydar alishbandi told afp that a total of 10 people had been killed and that the death toll was not expected to rise further .
"around 1 , 000 people are housed temporarily in tents and another 2 , 000 are waiting to be housed , " he said , adding that the weather was warm with temperatures of about 28 degrees celsius ( 82 degrees fahrenheit ) .
"we are not facing shortages and the relief operations are going smoothly . " .
some panicked residents of the island , which is situated off the coast from the large port city of bandar abbas and is home to about 100 , 000 people , slept outside after a second quake jolted the area several hours later .
the rocky and barren island was hit almost two years after the southeastern city of bam - - situated 300 kilometers ( 190 miles ) to the north - - was destroyed in a quake that killed tens of thousands of people .
state news agency irna quoted the head of qeshm's free - trade zone , ali rezapour , as saying the quake caused damage estimated at around 54 million dollars , with 50 schools and about 1 , 500 houses rendered unsafe .
qeshm , located 1 , 150 kilometers ( 700 miles ) southeast of tehran , has a busy commercial and fishing port and is also a popular weekend sunshine getaway for iranian tourists .
airport chief ali naghavi was quoted by irna as saying that operations had resumed after being halted on sunday .
the island's main town , also called qeshm , was undamaged .
the most affected villages were identified as gabardin , tonban , karvan , tourian and khaldin - - all situated in the less densely populated west of the island .
iran sits astride several major faults in the earth's crust , and is prone to frequent earthquakes .
in february , a quake measuring 6 . 4 on the richter scale hit the southern town of zarand , killing 612 people and wounding around 1 , 400 .
in december 2003 , the southeastern city of bam was razed by a 6 . 7 degree quake that left more than 31 , 000 people dead .
mehdi zareh , the head of iran's seismic research center , said there was no tsunami risk from the latest quake .
"because the persian gulf is not very deep , a tsunami is not expected , " he told the student news agency isna .
iran 's state television says a magnitude-5.2 quake has injured three people in the persian gulf island of qeshm .
the report says the earthquake struck the island at 5:11 p.m. local time .
the u.s. geological survey put the quake 's strength at magnitude-5.4 .
monday 's earthquake was the second one to hit qeshm in the past 24 hours .
earlier on sunday a 5.6 quake jolted the island , some 930 miles south of the capital , tehran .
november 28th , 2005 , 09 : 11 gmt .
5 . 9 earthquake jolts iran .
a 5 . 9 magnitude earthquake has leveled seven villages in iran's southern area , killing 10 persons and wounding other 70 , iranian officials were quoted by ap as saying .
according to iran's seismologic center , the epicenter of the earthquake was in the waters of the persian gulf , between the port city of bandar abbas and qeshm island .
qeshm's governor , heidar alishvandi , told the state television that rescue teams have been deployed to the affected areas and that the population from the villages is now safe .
a reporter of the iranian news agency , irna , said that the only hospital in qeshm was full of people and that there was a shortage of medical facilities .
according to the same agency , the deyrestan village saw serious destruction , while tonban and goursin were all but destroyed .
the main temblor was followed by at least four major aftershocks , with magnitudes ranging from 3 . 6 to 4 . 3 , which increased the panic among villagers .
qeshm , a 1 , 500 - square - kilometer island off the coast southwest of bandar abbas and 1 , 500 kilometers south of tehran , has a population of more than 100 , 000 .
'several die' in south iran quake .
novemer 27 , 2005 .
a powerful earthquake has hit southern iran , destroying several villages and killing at least three people and injuring others , according to reports .
the 5 . 9 - magnitude quake struck qeshm island , home to 120 , 000 people , and the city of bandar abbas , state media said .
the governor of qeshm island told the afp news agency four villages had been destroyed and three people killed .
the quake , which struck at 1353 ( 1023 gmt ) , was felt in the neighbouring gulf states of oman and the uae .
posted : nov 27 , 2005 8 : 20 am et last updated : nov 27 , 2005 8 : 10 pm et .
an earthquake with a magnitude of at least 5 . 9 hit southern iran on sunday , killing at least 10 people and injuring many others .
the quake was centred near qeshm island , home to 200 , 000 people , the u . s . geological survey said .
buildings were toppled in the island's capital , qeshm city , as well as in the the villages of tonban , gavarzin and khaledi .
the main hospital on qeshm was having trouble keeping up with the number of injured , iran's official news agency irna said .
it's "full of wounded , " the agency reported .
the quake also shook the major port city of bandar abbas and was felt in nearby countries .
in oman and the united arab emirates , buildings were evacuated and people fled into the streets .
an office worker in dubai said the tremor lasted 30 seconds and was strong enough to shake buildings along the skyscraper - lined central business district .
on saturday , more than a dozen people were killed by a quake in eastern china .
it destroyed thousands of buildings and left nearly half a million homeless .
powerful quake in iran kills 10 ; 80 hurt and 7 villages damaged .
published : november 28 , 2005 .
a powerful earthquake hit southern iran on sunday , causing major destruction in seven villages and killing 10 people and injuring 80 .
the tremor shook oman and the united arab emirates as well , forcing many office workers to evacuate their buildings .
the official irna news agency and the united states geological survey said it had a magnitude of 5 . 9 .
iran's seismologic center said the epicenter of the earthquake was in the waters of the persian gulf , 35 miles southwest of the port of bandar abbas .
iran is on seismic fault lines .
a major earthquake killed more than 31 , 000 in city of bam in central iran in 2003 , and 600 were killed in the city of zarand in february in an earthquake with a magnitude of 6 . 4 .
the tourist island of qeshm on the persian gulf and seven of its villages were most strongly affected by the quake .
it hit at 1 : 53 p . m . local time and was followed by at least four strong aftershocks , irna reported .
the news agency also reported that one of the major hospitals on the island , in the village of jeyhian , was destroyed and the village's power lines were cut .
the island's airport was also damaged .
abdolreza sheikholeslami , the governor of hormozgan province , the center of the damaged area , said 40 percent to 70 percent of the buildings in seven villages were destroyed , irna reported .
two helicopters began moving the injured to the hospital in bandar abbas , and aid workers began distributing food , blankets and tents in the region , the governor said .
qeshm is iran's largest island in the persian gulf , with a population of 120 , 000 .
the quake jolted several cities in the united arab emirates , across the persian gulf from iran .
office workers in dubai , united arab emirates , evacuated several buildings in the city , pouring onto the streets and snarling traffic .
there were no reported injuries in dubai .
mehdi zareh , director of the seismological center in tehran , dismissed concerns that the earthquake would cause tsunamis , irna reported .
"the persian gulf is not deep enough so that we can expect tsunamis , " he was quoted as saying .
map of iran highlighting epicenter of earthquake : a tremor shook southern iran yesterday , causing major damage .
iranian earthquake tremor hits dubai .
sunday , november 27 - 2005 at 16 : 12 .
tremors from an earthquake registering 6 . 1 on the richter scale 60km south west of bandar abbas in iran were felt in dubai today , prompting the evacuation of high - rise buildings on the sheikh zayed road and in the dubai media city .
some eye witnesses reported sensing a definite tremor for one minute , although others told ame info they had not felt anything .
uae authorities are now said to be contacting the us geological survey for details of this seismic activity , which is already listed on the usgs website , www . earthquake . usgs . gov , under the section for recent activity ( see address below ) .
the website reported 65 responses from dubai .
the earth tremor hit a triangular area between ras al khaimah , al ain and dubai .
this follows warnings from local uae academics that earthquake faultlines in iran could have serious implications for building stability in the uae .
seismic risk .
scientists such as dr azm al - homoud from the american university of sharjah have been trying to educate engineers , governments and the construction industry about the risks .
today's incident is bound to prompt a more serious interest in their work .
however , high - rise buildings in the uae all conform to international construction standards and are designed to withstand the sort of minor tremors reported today , although buildings are always thoroughly checked after such events to ensure their integrity .
the dubai authorities are expected to move swiftly to reassure residents that there has been no damage to persons or property .
the emirate is not believed to have had such a tremor in living memory , and clearly some people have been shaken .
such tremors are common in many major cities of the world , but dubai residents have not felt them before and will be looking for answers to the question of likely future seismic activity in the emirate .
but there appears no reason for alarm , as the earthquake was in iran .
man with murder in death at bloomington store .
a bloomington man has been charged with third-degree murder in a hit and run that killed a woman at the bloomington sam 's club store .
anthony phillip lasalle was also charged friday with three counts of criminal vehicular homicide .
lasalle is expected to appear in court next monday .
police say 66-year-old luann marie johnson , of burnsville , was killed wednesday night when she was struck twice by lasalle 's car outside the store .
authorities say the 36-year-old lasalle had a blood alcohol level of 0.41 % .
that 's more than five times the legal limit .
police say they had to taser him to get him out of his car , and that he told them he fled because he had drank a half-liter of vodka before driving to the store .
new york woman killed in hit - and - run crash .
on behalf of howard r . sanders , esq . posted in pedestrian accidents on wednesday , september 18 , 2013 .
according to investigators , a woman was killed by a hit - and - run driver in queens on the night of sept . 13 .
at approximately 7 p . m . , the woman was walking near the intersection of 117th street and 97th avenue in richmond hill .
she was walking among some parked cars when she was hit by a grey toyota camry that had been traveling north on 117th street .
the driver fled the accident scene but was apprehended by police officers .
the driver was charged with dwi , leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death , criminally negligent homicide and vehicular manslaughter .
a hit - and - run accident may be considered an example of extreme recklessness or carelessness on the part of a driver .
a personal injury attorney might review a hit - and - run accident case and suggest seeking punitive damages .
in some instances , it is possible to collect damages that exceed compensation for lost wages , medical expenses and funeral costs .
the intention is to punish reckless and negligent drivers and also to send a message to other drivers .
if the family wishes to seek only compensation for accident - related expenses , the attorney may negotiate for a settlement outside of court .
on the other hand , if the family decides to seek punitive damages , the attorney might request a jury trial in civil court .
if the at - fault driver was charged or convicted in criminal court , it may help support the claim of recklessness .
the attorney may use police reports , photos and evidence to build a convincing argument on behalf of the family .
if the judge and jury are persuaded by the argument and evidence presented , they may find in favor of the plaintiffs and award punitive damages .
bloomington sam 's club hit-run driver 's alcohol level : .41 .
the suspect in the death at a sam 's club had a blood- alcohol level more than five times the legal limit , according to charges , and he admitted he felt his car run over someone .
a man accused of running down and killing a woman in front of a bloomington store had a blood-alcohol level that was more than five times the legal limit , according to charges filed friday .
anthony phillip lasalle , 36 , was charged with third-degree murder and three counts of criminal vehicular homicide. his blood-alcohol level was 0.41 percent , according to the charges .
the legal limit in minnesota is 0.08 percent .
the charges say that he admitted to drinking a half-liter of vodka wednesday and that he said he fled because he had been drinking .
luann marie johnson , 66 , of burnsville was struck as she walked into sam 's club at 200 w. american blvd. on wednesday night .
police said she was in a marked crosswalk about 7 p.m. when a vehicle knocked her to the pavement .
the man driving momentarily stopped , and a man believed to be johnson 's husband screamed , " no , no , no ! " and tried to prevent the car from driving off .
instead , lasalle gunned the engine and drove over johnson , hitting her and dragging her 10 feet as he sped away , a witness said .
johnson died at hennepin county medical center in minneapolis .
the car then sideswiped a parked vehicle before leaving the parking lot and heading west on american boulevard .
police stopped lasalle , of bloomington , when he hit another vehicle two blocks away at the intersection of american boulevard and lyndale avenue .
according to the charges , police stopped lasalle 's vehicle and tried to make contact , but lasalle refused to comply , saying officers " would need to kill " him .
officers used a taser to subdue him , said sgt. marty earley .
lasalle was taken to fairview southdale hospital in edina to treat a cut on his head and to take a blood sample to measure his alcohol content , the charges said .
driver charged in fatal queens hit &amp; run .
a driver has been charged with dwi and criminally negligent homicide after police say he struck and killed a woman in queens last night .
according to an nypd release , 59 - year - old raj chohan was walking along parked cars on 117th street near 97th avenue at around 7 p . m . last night when 23 - year - old vishwanand subryan struck chohan with his 2013 toyota camry as he was traveling north .
subryan fled the scene , but was arrested nearby .
chohan was pronounced dead at jamaica hospital .
subryan was also charged with vehicular manslaughter , and leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death .
" they drive reckless around here , " a bystander told cbs .
"always reckless . " .
woman struck , killed in bloomington .
authorities have released the name of a 66-year-old woman who was walking outside the sam 's club in bloomington when she was struck and killed by a motorist .
police identified the victim on thursday as luann marie johnson of burnsville .
johnson was walking in a crosswalk outside the store when she was struck around 7 p.m. wednesday .
police say a man outside the sam 's club told the 36-year-old driver to stop but he kept going .
police pulled him over a few blocks away and say they had to taser him to get him out of the car .
the woman was pronounced dead at hcmc .
grandmother killed by drunk driver in hit - and - run accident in richmond hill , queens da saysseptember 19 , 2013 .
a 59 - year - old grandmother on her way to a religious service in richmond hill last friday was hit and killed by an allegedly drunk driver who fled the scene of the accident that left her family and friends devastated , queens district attorney richard brown said .
raj chohan , who lived in south ozone park , was walking towards a sikh temple for a friday evening service when vishwanand subryan , 23 , of schenectady , n . y . , allegedly mowed into the older woman with his gray 2013 toyota camry around 7 p . m . , police said .
emergency workers rushed to her side and brought her to jamaica hospital medical center , where chohan -- an immigrant from india who leaves behind a husband , son and two grandchildren -- died later that night , police said .
subryan has been charged with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , driving while under the influence of alcohol , and leaving the scene of an accident without reporting it , the da said .
" drinking and driving is a deadly combination -- one that has the potential of turning a vehicle into a lethal weapon , " brown said in a prepared statement .
" in this case , the defendant is accused of getting behind the wheel while under the influence of alcohol , being unable to maintain proper control of his vehicle , and striking a pedestrian before speeding away without checking to see if she needed medical assistance . " .
arraigned on sept . 15 , subryan was ordered held on $200 , 000 bail and is expected to return to queens supreme court in kew gardens on oct . 2 .
according to the criminal charges , two police officers from the 102nd precinct were stationed on 117th street at approximately 7 p . m . on friday night , when they heard a loud bang behind them and one of the officers saw fluorescent garments fly in the air .
when the officers turned around , they allegedly saw subryan speed past them .
he then allegedly ran a stop sign and red light when police began to pursue him , the da said .
when cops stopped the car , police allegedly observed subryan to have bloodshot watery eyes and slurred speech and smelled of alcohol , according to brown .
additionally , he was allegedly swaying and unsteady on his feet when he got out of his car -- which police wrote had a dented hood , a cracked bumper and front headlight , and scuff marks on the hood , the nypd said .
the driver was taken to the 112th precinct , where police documented that he allegedly had a blood alcohol content of . 09 percent -- above new york " s legal limit of . 08 percent .
a civilian witness at the scene also told police that they saw a car speed by and then saw chohan , who was wearing bright yellow clothing and went into cardiac arrest , laying in the street , the da said .
video surveillance from the area showed the vehicle striking chohan , causing her to become airborne , according to brown .
the tragic event was one of three accidents involving pedestrians in the city last weekend .
a female pedestrian was struck and killed by a motorist when she was crossing queens plaza north near 27th street a little before 10 p . m . on friday , according to police .
the unidentified woman was pronounced dead at mount sinai hospital .
maria dulce - valencia , 27 , was also killed in a hit - and - run accident , police said .
she was hit around 5 a . m . sunday morning at bruckner boulevard and evergreen avenue in the bronx " s soundview neighborhood .
man charged with dwi , leaving scene after s . rich hill mother killed in crash : nypd .
a 59 - year - old woman was killed in a hit - and - run crash while visiting a former neighbor to welcome his new daughter - in - law to the family friday evening , and the man allegedly behind the wheel of the car that hit her was charged with driving drunk , police and the woman " s friend said .
raj k . chohan was walking alongside parked cars on 117th street and 97th avenue at about 7 p . m . when she was struck by a gray 2013 toyota camry , which then sped off , according to cops .
" the husband and wife came to visit , " said south richmond hill resident suri charanjit .
" he was with her when it happened . " .
charanjit said he and his family came out of their home on 117th street and saw a crowd of people gathered and ems performing cpr on chohan .
emergency responders were called in and took chohan to jamaica hospital , where she was later pronounced dead , the nypd said .
residents along 117th street said a police cruiser happened to be pulled over on the side of the road near where the crash occurred , and immediately chased the vehicle .
police said the officers caught up with 23 - year - old vishwanand subryan of schenectady a few blocks away - at 115th street and 101st avenue - where he was taken into custody without incident .
subryan was charged with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death and dwi , the nypd said .
chohan , who is a mother to a married son and daughter , had been in her former neighborhood to visit piara singh , according to charanjit who translated for singh .
she had moved about a mile and a half away five or six years ago , her friend said .
as part of a sikh tradition , she had been visiting to greet singh " s daughter - in - law , who recently arrived from india , and present her with gifts , he explained .
chohan had called singh " s house to let the family know she was outside and asked that someone open the door .
" when [ singh " s ] son came out , he saw her on the floor , " charanjit said .
both charanjit and singh complained cars speeding along 117th street .
" the cars come straight from 103rd avenue .
they have no stop sign , no bump , nothing but green until 95th avenue , " charanjit said .
" this is just a side street .
we want to have a stop sign . " .
schenectady man charged in fatal queens crash .
published 12 : 17 am , monday , september 16 , 2013 .
a schenectady man has been charged in a fatal hit - and - run crash that killed a woman in queens friday night , new york police said .
vishwanand subryan , 23 , was charged with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , leaving the scene of an accident and driving while intoxicated , police said .
subryan allegedly struck raj chohan , a 59 - year - old grandmother , as she walked along parked cars on 117th street in queens when the car struck her and fled the scene .
chohan was unconscious and unresponsive when officers and ems arrived , police said .
she was taken to jamaica hospital , where she was pronounced dead , police said .
subryan was arrested without incident shortly after the crash , police said .
police arrest suspect in fatal bloomington hit and run .
the driver allegedly hit a 66-year-old woman near a bloomington parking lot and fled the scene .
police said alcohol was a factor .
a woman hit and killed by a motorist wednesday night outside a sam 's club store in bloomington might be alive if the driver had listened to bystanders who frantically pleaded with him to stop .
luann marie johnson , 66 , of burnsville , was walking into the store at 200 w. american blvd. with her husband when she was struck just after 7 p.m. , said sgt. marty earley .
she was in a marked crosswalk when the car hit her .
the impact knocked johnson to the ground .
as she lay in front of the motorist 's vehicle , a man standing next to her screamed , " no , no , no ! " and tried to get the driver to stay put .
instead , the driver gunned the engine and drove over johnson , hitting her and dragging her 10 feet as he sped away , said witness angela benson , who had just exited the store with her two young sons and was 20 feet away .
" it was horrible to see , " said benson , a managing editor at wcco-tv , ch. 4 .
" he took off like a bullet .
people were just screaming . " .
johnson was taken to hennepin county medical center in minneapolis , where she died .
after hitting her , the suspect sideswiped a parked vehicle before leaving the parking lot and heading west on american boulevard .
police stopped anthony phillip lasalle , 36 , of bloomington , when he hit another vehicle at the intersection of american boulevard and lyndale avenue .
they used a taser to subdue him .
lasalle was arrested and booked into the bloomington city jail , earley said .
he is now being held in the hennepin county jail on probable cause for criminal vehicular operation .
police were still gathering statements from several witnesses thursday morning , but " we do know alcohol was a factor , " earley said .
lasalle is expected to be charged today , earley said .
woman killed in queens hit - and - run , driver charged .
updated 09 / 14 / 2013 01 : 03 pm .
a woman has died after being hit by a car that fled the scene in queens , and now , the driver is facing manslaughter charges .
witnesses say 59 - year - old raj chohan was leaving her car on 117th street in south richmond hill friday when she was hit by a silver toyota camry and sent flying into the air .
she died at the hospital .
police caught up with the driver , who is from schnectady , a few blocks away .
he has been charged with vehicular manslaughter , negligent homicide and fleeing the scene of an accident .
hit and run outside bloomington sam 's club leaves woman dead .
a woman died wednesday night after being struck by a hit-and-run driver outside a store in bloomington , according to a report from wcco-tv channel 4 .
the woman was walking in a crosswalk outside the sam 's club at 200 w. american blvd. around 7 p.m. when she was hit , the station reported .
a bystander tried to stop the driver , but he drove off .
police pulled the 36-year-old driver over a few blocks away , the station reported .
the victim , who was in her 60s , was taken to hennepin county medical center in minneapolis , where she was pronounced dead , according to the report .
the station also reported that when the driver was arrested , he was uncooperative and officers had to use a taser to subdue him .
police believe the driver was drinking at the time of the crash , wcco-tv reported .
queens hit and run leaves woman dead .
saturday , september 14 , 2013 .
police have a suspect in custody after a hit and run accident that killed a woman in queens friday night .
investigators say 59 - year old raj chohan was hit while walking along parked cars at 97th avenue and 117th street in richmond hill at about 7 p . m .
police say she was struck by a grey toyota camry heading north on 117th street , which then fled the scene .
they later apprehended the suspect , identified as 23 - year old vishwanand subryan of schenectady , new york .
he has been charged with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death , and dwi .
eyewitness news has learned from people in the neighborhood that the victim is originally from punjab , india .
she was in the neighborhood visiting someone .
she doesn't live on the block .
eyewitness news spoke to one man who says he called 911 after he heard a crash .
"i see a person lying down .
this is a mom , a female , and then i dialed 911 , " said mahadeo rambrich , a witness .
"what did the person look like when you saw her lying on the ground ? " eyewitness news asked .
"not responding .
she was unconscious , " rambrich said .
this neighborhood is mostly made up of indian and guyanese families , and residents describe it as peaceful and quiet .
there's a temple there .
but friday night , everyone was shaken up by what happened .
charges filed in parking lot drunken hit-and-run .
the hennepin county attorney filed criminal charges friday against the man who they say hit and killed a woman walking out of a store .
anthony phillip lasalle is now in jail for that crime .
bloomington police say he drank so much his blood-alcohol level was 0.41 , more than five times the legal limit .
lasalle faces serious charges , including murder and vehicular homicide .
both of them are felonies .
the criminal complaint in this case gives details about exactly what happened wednesday night .
lasalle drank 1/2 liter of vodka before he drove to the sam 's club in bloomington and parked his car .
as he was leaving the lot , he accelerated rapidly , and felt his front and rear left side tires drive over someone .
luann marie johnson was hit at such a high rate of speed that her feet came out from under her and she hit her head on the pavement as she fell .
the car dragged her 10 feet .
johnson and her husband were walking out of the store about 7 p.m .
they were in the crosswalk when the car came speeding toward them .
michael gallagher happened to be right there , too .
" our hearts and prayers are with the man who lost his wife who died , " said gallagher , who threw down his salvation army bell and ran to johnson and her husband to help .
" he was pretty shook up .
he tried to provide first aid for and tried to provide comfort for her , " said sgt. marty earley with the bloomington police department , as he described gallagher 's actions .
minutes later , bloomington police saw the car lasalle was driving .
they tried to contact lasalle , but they say he was uncooperative and refused to get out of his vehicle , saying that officers would need to kill him .
those police officers had to use a taser to get him out of his car .
they say he smelled like alcohol and had glassy eyes .
bloomington police officers gave johnson first aid and questioned people who saw the hit-and-run .
johnson suffered a head trauma and her injuries were severe .
she died an hour later at hennepin county medical center .
queens grandmother killed by a drunk hit - and - run driver .
raj chohan , 59 , was killed by a drunk hit - and - run driver as she was on her way to attend religious services on friday .
saturday , september 14 , 2013 , 9 : 29 pm .
a grandmother crossing a queens street to attend a religious service friday was mowed down by a drunken hit - and - run driver , cops and family said .
raj chohan , 59 , had just parked her car and was walking alongside other parked vehicles toward a sikh temple when she was struck by a gray 2013 toyota camry heading north on 117th st . near 97th ave . about 7 p . m . , police said .
chohan , who lived half a mile away in south ozone park , was rushed to jamaica hospital , where she later died .
" we are really just shocked , " said her nephew , ravi singh , 32 , of coney island .
" she was so nice .
she always takes care of everybody . " .
a cop patrolling on foot happened to see the fleeing vehicle and alerted other officers , who pulled the heartless driver over at 115th st . and 101st ave .
vishwanand subryan , 23 , of schenectady , n . y . , was charged with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , driving drunk and leaving the scene of a fatal accident .
" he should be punished , in jail , for the rest of his life , " singh said .
" we were a very close family . " .
chohan , an indian immigrant , lived with her husband , son and two grandkids .
" the grandkids were her whole life and joy , " a family friend said .
" she was a very caring person . " .
man charged in deadly hit and run outside sam 's club .
a man has been charged in a hit and run accident that killed a 66-year-old burnsville woman .
anthony phillip lasalle of bloomington was charged on friday with third degree murder and three counts of criminal vehicular homicide .
lasalle is expected to appear in court next monday .
luann marie johnson , 66 , of burnsville was killed wednesday night when lasalle struck and killed her as she was walking outside a sam 's club in bloomington .
lasalle , 36 , had a blood alcohol level of 0.41 percent .
that 's more than five times the legal limit .
police say a man outside the sam 's club told lasalle to stop but he kept going .
police pulled lasalle over a few blocks away and say they had to taser him to get him out of the car .
cops : queens woman killed in hit - and - run .
driver charged with dwi , vehicular manslaughter .
september 14 , 2013 10 : 46 am .
a 59 - year - old mother of two died when a drunken driver struck her with his car and then drove off , police said .
raj chohan , 59 , of queens , had just parked her car around 7 p . m . friday at 97th avenue and 117th street in richmond hill when she was hit by a 2013 toyota camry , which then fled , police told 1010 wins " glenn schuck .
a police officer that was parked nearby and witnessed the incident chased after the car and arrested vishwanand subryan , 23 , of schenectady , several blocks away .
subryan is charged with dwi , vehicular manslaughter and leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death .
chohan was pronounced dead at jamaica hospital .
several neighbors ran outside to try to help the woman .
" oh man , she was bad , " one man told schuck .
" there was nothing we could do .
everybody was just standing there all confused , like they can " t believe that this happened over here .
she was out cold . " .
" my wife was getting ready to go out with the kid , and she screamed that somebody hit another car and ran away , " another neighbor said .
" when i went to check , i saw the lady lying on the floor , but she wasn " t breathing or anything . " .
man charged in fatal bloomington hit and run .
the man police say is behind a fatal hit and run outside a sam 's club store in bloomington , now faces a murder charge .
the hennepin county attorney 's office handed down charges to anthony phillip lasalle friday , which include one count of third-degree murder and three counts of criminal vehicular homicide .
police said 66-year-old luann marie johnson , of burnsville , was with her husband when she was struck in the crosswalk outside the store , located at 200 west american boulevard , around 7 p.m. wednesday .
paramedics rushed johnson to hennepin county medical center where she died .
" kind , gentle , christian , loved the lord , and she 's better off where she is now , " said lois scholz , a friend of luann 's .
scholz lives across the hall from luann and her husband leroy .
" leroy was blessed and he 's comfortable with this , " scholz said .
" i talked with him and he 's very at peace with the idea that she 's with the lord . " .
after a struggle , officers were able to apprehend the bloomington man a few blocks away from the scene , by using a taser .
during his flee , lasalle struck two other vehicles , but no one was injured , according to authorities .
according to the criminal complaint , lasalle was transported to fairview southdale hospital to be treated for his injures he sustained during his apprehension .
he also had blood drawn , which was tested , and resulted in showing his blood-alcohol level was .41 .
lasalle told police he had drank a half-liter of vodka before driving to sam 's club .
he also admitted that he knew he had hit someone and was required to stop .
however , he told officials that because he was drunk , it affected his decision to leave the scene .
state records show lasalle has three prior dui convictions , spanning from 1990 to 1991 .
he also has two motor vehicle theft convictions .
lasalle is in custody .
if convicted , he faces up to 55 years in prison , a $ 60,000 fine , or both .
woman killed in queens hit - and - run , police arrest allegedly drunk driver .
on september 14 , 2013 11 : 41am | updated on september 14 , 2013 11 : 41am .
an allegedly intoxicated driver who tried to flee after striking and fatally injuring a woman in queens has been charged in her murder , according to police .
police responded to the richmond hill crash on the corner of 117th street and 97th avenue at 7 : 01 p . m . on friday to find the unconscious raj k . chohan , 59 , of college point , lying in the roadway , the nypd said .
ems crews rushed chohan to jamaica hospital for treatment , where she was later pronounced dead .
an initial investigation of the scene revealed that chohan had been walking alongside the parked cars on 117th street when she was struck by a vehicle heading northbound , police said .
the driver took off after the accident , but witnesses identified the vehicle as a grey 2013 toyota camry and vishwanand subryan , 23 , of schenectady , was identified and arrested not far from the scene , police said .
subryan was charged with criminally negligent homicide , vehicular manslaughter , leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death , and driving while intoxicated .
an investigation into the crime is still ongoing , police said .
pedestrian fatally hit outside bloomington sam 's club .
police use taser to arrest hit-and-run suspect .
police have arrested a man in the hit -and-run death of a woman in the parking lot crosswalk at sam 's club in bloomington .
66-year-old luann johnson , of burnsville , was hit while walking in the crosswalk around 7 p.m. wednesday night .
the driver fled the scene after the woman was hit .
her husband watched it happen .
anthony phillip lasalle , 36 , of bloomington , was pulled over a few blocks away , where police say he was uncooperative , refusing to exit his car .
after the suspected motorist hit the woman , he allegedly hit another car in the parking lot and another car on american boulevard .
there , lasalle , also known by law enforcement as " crazy t , " was eventually tasered and taken into custody .
he has a prior dwi conviction in minnetonka from 1992 .
police say alcohol was a factor in the accident .
lasalle is expected to face charges on friday of criminal vehicular homicide , dwi , and driving with a limited license .
hit - and - run crash leaves queens mother of 2 dead .
on behalf of newman , anzalone &amp; newman , llp . posted in hit and run accidents on friday , september 20 , 2013 .
in new york , there are laws about what to do if you have been involved in an accident .
one extremely important law is that both drivers must remain at the scene of the crash if someone was injured or killed .
this law helps make sure that no one is left behind to try to get help on their own .
unfortunately , some people are too afraid of the other potential consequences of a serious crash that they choose to flee the scene , leaving victims to fend for themselves .
this type of negligence can lead to a delay in treatment , which could result in death .
just last week , a serious hit - and - run accident took place in queens .
when a 59 - year - old woman stepped out of her car at 97th avenue and 117th street , she was struck by a car .
instead of stopping to help her , however , the driver fled the scene .
sadly , the mother of two died from injuries she sustained in the crash .
thankfully , a police officer was nearby and saw the collision .
he chased down the driver and eventually arrested him .
the driver was charged with drunk driving , leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death , and vehicular manslaughter .
for victims injured in a hit - and - run accident and the family members of those who were killed by hit - and - run drivers , the aftermath of such accidents can be very difficult to deal with .
on top of trying to recover from injuries or grieving the loss of a loved one , many people wonder how they will be able to obtain compensation for costs incurred due to the accident .
even if you don't know who hit you , there are ways to obtain compensation for the damages inflicted in a hit - and - run crash .
whether you work with an attorney to find the driver or pursue compensation through your personal injury protection coverage , there are ways to make sure you get the financial help you need after an accident .
police release id of woman killed in parking lot .
according to police , anthony lasalle , 36 , of minneapolis , hit and killed a 66-year-old luann marie johnson in the parking lot of the bloomington sam 's club wednesday night .
holiday shopping turned traumatic for dozens of people in bloomington wednesday night after a woman was killed right in front of them , while her husband struggled to keep her alive .
police said johnsonwas in the crosswalk around 7 p.m. when the car first hit her .
the driver , lasalle , then paused as johnson 's husband tried to stop him .
then lasalle hit the gas , running her over and dragging her as he tried to get away .
" the moment he hit that gas , i went , that woman just died , " said wcco tv managing editor angela benson .
just seconds before , benson and her two young sons were walking in the same crosswalk .
" i turned around and there 's a man telling a car 'no , no , no , stop , wait a second . ' .
and there 's a woman laying on the ground in front of the tire , " recalled benson .
she said the driver then gunned the car and took off , hitting several cars in the parking lot along the way .
" he hit her and rolled over her , and she rolled under his car a good 10 feet , " benson said .
police caught up to him after he rear-ended a parked car at a stop light on lyndale avenue .
" the driver was uncooperative , made some veiled threats that they 'd have to shoot him to get him out .
he was subsequently tased by police , " said bloomington police sgt. marty earley .
meantime , salvation army bell ringer michael gallagher ran to help johnson and her hysterical husband .
" he was pretty shook up .
he tried to provide first aid for her , and tried to provide comfort for her , " said earley .
gallagher was back on the job the next day .
he had only one thing to say about the horrible thing he saw the night before .
" our hearts and prayers go out to the man and his wife who died , " he said .
that 's something that benson echoes .
" i just feel sad , i feel really sad for that man crying over his wife , " she said .
police arrested lasalle for drunk driving .
according to his police record , this is his second dwi and he uses the alias " crazy t " .
he 's expected to be charged with the hit-and-run by noon on friday .
investigators say sam 's club is looking over its surveillance tape and will hand it over to police to check out .
a sam 's club spokesperson said this is a terrible tragedy and their hearts and thoughts are with the woman 's family .
woman killed in queens hit - run , driver charged .
the woman was taken to jamaica hospital in traumatic arrest .
saturday , sep 14 , 2013 .
police say a 59 - year - old woman died after being struck by a vehicle in queens friday night and that officers found and arrested the driver who hit her a few blocks away .
raj chohan was hit by a 2013 gray camry near 117th street and 97th avenue in richmond hill .
the victim's nephew said she had just gotten out of a car and was walking when the car "came out of nowhere" and hit her from behind .
"her forehead hit the back of the headlight , and the headlight broke , " said manpreet singh .
"everybody's in shock right now , " said singh .
the driver , who police identified as vishwanand subryan , fled the scene but was apprehended by police shortly afterward .
subryan , 23 , was charged with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death and driving while intoxicated .
information on a lawyer for subryan was not immediately available .
authorities have released the name of a 66-year-old woman who was walking outside the sam 's club in bloomington when she was struck and killed by a motorist .
police identified the victim on thursday as luann marie johnson of burnsville .
johnson was walking in a crosswalk outside the store when she was struck around 7 p.m. wednesday .
police say a man outside the sam 's club told the 36-year-old driver to stop but he kept going .
police pulled him over a few blocks away and say they had to taser him to get him out of the car .
the woman was pronounced dead at hcmc .
woman killed in queens hit - and - run accident , driver charged .
a woman has died after being hit by a car that fled the scene in queens friday , and now , the driver is facing manslaughter charges .
arrest made in bloomington hit and run .
police arrested a man they believe to be the hit and run driver who killed a 66-year-old woman outside the sam 's club in bloomington .
bloomington officers said luann marie johnson , of burnsville , was walking with her husband was hit in the crosswalk of the parking lot of the store , located off american boulevard , around 7 p.m. wednesday .
paramedics rushed johnson to hennepin county medical center where she died .
police said they pulled over the driver , anthony lasalle , a few blocks away after he had struck two other vehicles while fleeing the scene .
officials had to use a taser on lasalle to get him out of his car .
according to court records , lasalle has three prior dui conviction spanning from 1990 to 1991 .
he also has two motor vehicle theft convictions .
lasalle is in custody , pending formal charges that are expected friday .
the crash is still under investigation .
woman killed in queens hit - and - run accident , driver charged .
updated 9 : 06 am .
a woman has died after being hit by a car that fled the scene in queens , and now , the driver is facing manslaughter charges .
witnesses say 59 - year - old raj chohan was leaving her car on 117th street in south richmond hill friday when she was hit by a silver toyota camry and sent flying into the air .
she died at the hospital .
police caught up with the driver , who is from schnectady , a few blocks away .
he has been charged with vehicular manslaughter , negligent homicide and fleeing the scene of an accident .
trial begins for kraft shooting suspect .
the murder trial of a suspended female employee who allegedly shot and killed two co - workers two years ago starts monday .
monday , sep 10 , 2012 | updated 9 : 01 am edt .
the murder trial for the suspended kraft foods employee accused of shooting three co - workers , killing two of them , starts monday .
yvonne hiller , 43 , is charged with murder for the shooting deaths of two female co - workers in september 2010 .
hiller is also charged with attempted murder for allegedly shooting and injuring a third co - worker .
police say that the shootings happened minutes after hiller was suspended from her job at the kraft plant following an altercation with the three victims .
they say she forced her way through security at gunpoint , walked into the employee lounge where the three victims were and shot them .
9 / 10 / 2010 @ 1 : 19pm .
female employee yvonne hiller kills two in kraft shooting .
in a sad and surprising reversal of gender roles , a disgruntled woman opened fire at a kraft factory in philadelphia last night , killing two workers and wounding two others .
the shooting happened moments after the employee , yvonne hiller , was suspended from her job at kraft , where she " d worked for 15 years , the daily news reports .
after being escorted from the snack plant , she re - entered 10 minutes later with a handgun .
about 100 people were in the building when she began shooting .
hiller was taken into custody after a standoff with the swat team .
a kraft representative confirmed hiller is now in police custody and that one of the wounded employees is in the hospital .
" this is a sad time for the kraft foods family , " a statement reads .
" we are working closely with the authorities as they investigate this situation , and our facility is closed until further notice . " .
unfortunately , the most surprising aspect of this incident is the shooter " s gender .
women shooters are rare but may be on the rise .
in february , a woman opened fire at the university of alabama , killing three and injuring several others .
reportedly , she was a professor whose tenure had been denied .
two years ago , a female college student committed a shooting at a louisiana college .
kraft shooting : yvonne hiller charged with two counts of murder .
09 / 10 / 10 08 : 23 pm et .
a kraft foods plant worker who had been suspended for feuding with colleagues , then escorted from the building , returned minutes later with a handgun , found her foes in a break room and executed two of them with a single bullet each and critically wounded a third , police said friday .
yvonne hiller , 43 , had gotten into an argument thursday evening with her co - workers at the northeast philadelphia plant , police said .
after she was disciplined , she went to her vehicle , made several phone calls , and then grabbed a . 357 magnum and used it to force her way past security guards at the front gate .
about 100 people were at work at the plant , which makes nabisco cookies and crackers .
hiller walked to the third - floor mixing area and found four people in the break room .
she had no quarrels with one woman and told her to leave .
she then opened fire on the others , philadelphia homicide capt . james clark said .
"she believed they were spraying chemicals at her , saying things behind her back , " clark said .
after leaving the break room , hiller went down a hallway and fired shots at the supervisor who had suspended her and at a mechanic who was using a walkie - talkie to alert police and co - workers to her whereabouts , police said .
she missed both .
hiller finally went to a second - floor office and called police to tell them what she had done , authorities said .
seven other workers were hiding in a closet nearby .
cpl . janice leader , a 911 dispatcher , told reporters friday that hiller called 911 , saying "i'm the one you're looking for" and reporting that she had been harassed at work .
keeping her on the line , leader said she told hiller to put the gun down and place her hands on her head so officers wouldn't take any aggressive action against her .
when tactical police who had entered the plant found her , hiller was in a fetal position on the floor , the gun beside her .
police called the mechanic a hero who "did a phenomenal job" in alerting employees to evacuate the building and directing officers to where hiller was .
"by following the suspect at great peril to himself -- and we can see that by the fact that he was shot at and almost hit -- he reduced our tactical problem quite dramatically , " chief inspector joe sullivan said .
police identified the victims as tanya renee wilson , 47 ; latonya sharon brown , 36 ; and bryant a . dalton , 39 , all of philadelphia .
wilson and brown died at the plant .
dalton , shot in the neck , remained in intensive care friday at jefferson university hospital , police said .
the plant will remain closed indefinitely , kraft said .
"we suspended the employee when she became agitated and used profanity .
we wanted the opportunity to investigate the situation , " kraft said in a statement friday .
hiller was charged with two counts of murder , one count of attempted murder , aggravated assault and other charges .
she had a permit to carry the gun , authorities said .
hiller has worked for kraft for about 15 years , and had been in repeated arguments there in the past several years , a few of them physical , clark said .
yet a next - door neighbor described hiller as a quiet woman who kept to herself but said she was polite and exchanged pleasantries when they saw each other .
catherine hillgen , who has lived on the tidy middle - class city block for about 45 years , said hiller moved in several years ago with her son but recently has been living alone .
she initially dismissed a neighbor's report thursday that hiller might be involved in a fatal workplace shooting , but then heard her named on the news friday .
"it was a complete shock , " hillgen said .
"i would not expect it . " .
kraft , based in northfield , ill . , also makes oreo cookies , philadelphia cream cheese , oscar mayer bacon and other products .
mass shootings are rarely carried out by women , said dr . park dietz , president of threat assessment group inc . , a newport beach , calif . - based violence prevention firm .
earlier this year , amy bishop , a former instructor and researcher at the university of alabama's huntsville campus , was charged with murder in a campus shooting spree that left three biology professors dead and three other employees wounded .
she claimed the shootings "didn't happen . " .
thursday's shooting came just weeks after a driver who had been accused of stealing from a manchester , conn . , beer distributorship fatally shot eight people , then himself .
the driver , who was black , had seethed with a sense of racial injustice in his job , said his girlfriend .
but the beer distributor's president said there was no record to support claims of "racial insensitivity . " .
krafts food shooter yvonne hiller charged with two counts of murder .
hiller feuded with co - workers prior to shooting ; risk factors and prevention of workplace violence .
sep 10 , 2010 .
yvonne hiller , a suspended kraft foods employee at the company's philadelphia factory , returned thursday evening , gunned down two women and leaving a man wounded with shots to the neck and shoulder .
another man was also injured but not seriously .
a few minutes after being escorted from the facility by security , hiller drove her car through a security barrier and entered where roughly 100 people were .
according to the philadelphia inquirer , she was carrying a . 357 magnum handgun .
according to the huffington post , police say hiller feuded with her victims prior to their shooting deaths .
hiller made her way to the third - floor mixing room where she worked , located her victims in the break room , and opened fire .
she also fired through a wall at police officers but none were hit .
the swat team apprehended yvonne hiller while she hid in a second - floor office and she has been charged with two counts of murder .
kraft has closed the philadelphia factory until further notice .
kraft food's susan davison said , "this is a tragic loss for all of us .
to assist our employees , we will be providing counseling services at the facility .
at this time , we are still trying to confirm the facts . " .
davison added , "we again express our deepest condolences to the families who have been touched by this tragedy . " .
11 / 09 / 2010 .
kraft shooting : yvonne hiller charged with two counts of murder .
a kraft foods plant worker who had been suspended for feuding with colleagues , then escorted from the building , returned minutes later with a handgun , found her foes in a break room and executed two of them with a single bullet each and critically wounded a third , police said friday .
yvonne hiller , 43 , had gotten into an argument thursday evening with her co - workers at the northeast philadelphia plant , police said .
after she was disciplined , she went to her vehicle , made several phone calls , and then grabbed a . 357 magnum and used it to force her way past security guards at the front gate .
about 100 people were at work at the plant , which makes nabisco cookies and crackers .
hiller walked to the third - floor mixing area and found four people in the break room .
she had no quarrels with one woman and told her to leave .
she then opened fire on the others , philadelphia homicide capt . james clark said .
"she believed they were spraying chemicals at her , saying things behind her back , " clark said .
after leaving the break room , hiller went down a hallway and fired shots at the supervisor who had suspended her and at a mechanic who was using a walkie - talkie to alert police and co - workers to her whereabouts , police said .
she missed both .
hiller finally went to a second - floor office and called police to tell them what she had done , authorities said .
seven other workers were hiding in a closet nearby .
cpl . janice leader , a 911 dispatcher , told reporters friday that hiller called 911 , saying "i'm the one you're looking for" and reporting that she had been harassed at work .
keeping her on the line , leader said she told hiller to put the gun down and place her hands on her head so officers wouldn't take any aggressive action against her .
sixty-year-old sharron diane crawford smith is now accused of murdering two women at a staunton ice cream store in 1967 .
co - worker calls alleged shooter : "very spiritual" .
friday , sep 10 , 2010 | updated 8 : 52 pm edt .
"she's not a loose cannon .
she's a hard worker , works very hard .
she's very spiritual . " .
kenneth dorsey says the woman accused of killing two co - workers and critically injuring a third at the kraft plant in northeast philly is a good person .
and so were the two women she's accused of gunning down with a . 357 magnum , just minutes after she'd been suspended and escorted from the building .
dorsey's been at the plant for 37 years and worked on the third floor with the three victims and the alleged shooter , yvonne hiller .
"they had argued , from what i was told , they argued , " dorsey told nbc10's rosemary connors after the shootings thursday night .
"i had just started my job , you know and i heard like bang , bang , but you hear noises everyday at a bakery so you don't pay any mind . " .
then a co - worker yelled , "come on , you got to leave now !
she's shooting . " .
after the shootings , hiller holed up in an office on the second floor where the swat team found her after co - workers who were hiding in the office next door tipped off building security .
"i never thought in my deepest heart that it would come down to this , " dorsey said .
some co - workers said she had a history of run - ins with other workers and management , dorsey said like anyone , they sometimes had their differences , but always got along .
"we talked about her muslim faith and i wished her happy ramadan , " dorsey said .
"i might be wrong , but my guess is she had some people that she had issues with and a personal agenda , a score she had to settle . " .
dorsey said the shooting was going to be hard on everyone .
"we're like family here . " .
"tell your audience to keep the families in your prayers , however you pray - - whether you're jewish , christian , muslim - - we're all in shock . . .
and i lost two of my closest friends . . .
i'm gonna go home and take a shower and read the bible and pray .
hopefully , i can get through this .
a 60-year-old woman charged with killing two young women in a staunton ice cream shop 41 years ago was released without bail , authorities said friday , because she is dying from kidney and heart disease and living in a hospice facility .
suspended worker kills 2 women in kraft factory shooting : police .
the woman accused had just been escorted from the building 10 minutes earlier .
friday , sep 10 , 2010 | updated 9 : 28 am edt .
minutes after a woman was suspended and escorted from her job at the kraft foods plant in northeast philadelphia , she returned with a . 357 magnum and opened fire , killing two women and critically injuring a third co - worker before being taken into custody , police said .
the shootings happened shortly after 8 : 30 p . m . thursday .
about 10 minutes after the yvonne hiller was escorted out , she returned in a car and drove through a security barrier before re - entering the building on foot , lt . frank vanore said .
she walked inside , firing a shot at an employee who had followed her in and had yelled , "hide , she's got a gun ! " vanore said .
that shot missed .
hiller , 43 , then shot the three victims , according to police - - the women were shot on the third floor and the man she confronted on the stairs as she went down to the second floor where she barricaded herself into an office .
officers freed seven people who had locked themselves in an office next to the shooter , said vanore .
investigators didn't say why hiller , a 15 - year employee , was suspended .
one witness told nbc philadelphia that she has a history of run - ins with co - workers and management .
dough mixer andy ryan , who has worked at the plant for nearly 30 years , said he was on the third floor when the sound of the shots .
echoed through the building .
"i heard the gunfire , and i ran , " he told the associated press , his apron still on .
"as i was running down the steps they were yelling , 'oh , my god , there's three people shot ! ' .
"this is a sad day for the kraft foods family , " the company said in a statement .
"our thoughts and prayers go out to their families .
the loss of a loved one is a great sorrow . " .
kraft said the plant would be closed until further notice and the company would provide employees with counseling .
staunton police on friday arrested a 60-year-old , terminally ill woman in the 1967 killings of two young women at a local ice cream stand , ending an agonizing 41-year odyssey for the victims ' families .
charged with murder : what most of the liberal media won't tell you about the "very spiritual' female kraft employee who shot three co - workers .
the woman who allegedly shot three co - workers -- killing two-- at the kraft plant thursday night has been charged with murder , attempted murder , aggravated assault , burglary , and other related charges , says philadelphia district attorney seth williams .
the victims and alleged shooter in the last night " s kraft plant shooting had a history of arguing that dates back several years -- the suspect thought her co - workers were spraying chemicals on her and talking behind her back , according to police .
yvonne hiller , 43 , got into an altercation with the two women and a male co - worker thursday night , was taken to the supervisor " s office , suspended and escorted out of the building . .
ten minutes after being taken off the job , hiller drove her car to the security gate and forced her way in at gunpoint , police say , and headed back up to the third floor armed with her . 357 magnum , which she has a permit to carry .
she went to the employee lounge , saw four of her co - workers -- three of with whom she " d just had the altercation .
the fourth person told her to get out of the lounge .
she shot the other three , police say .
bryant dalton , 39 , was shot in the neck and is hospitalized in critical condition .
latonya brown , 36 , was shot in the head and tanya wilson , 47 , was shot in the side .
both women died .
kenneth dorsey says the woman accused of killing two co - workers and critically injuring a third at the kraft plant in northeast philly is a good person .
and so were the two women she " s accused of gunning down with a . 357 magnum , just minutes after she " d been suspended and escorted from the building .
" we talked about her muslim faith and i wished her happy ramadan , " dorsey said .
" i never thought in my deepest heart that it would come down to this , " dorsey said .
the reason hiller was suspended had not been made public friday afternoon and while some co - workers said she had a history of run - ins with other workers and management , dorsey said like anyone , they sometimes had their differences , but always got along .
a co-worker has been charged in the 1967 slayings of two women at an ice cream shop in staunton , but authorities say the suspect is near death with a terminal illness .
 very spiritual " muslim woman shoots co - workers .
on september 10th , 2010 .
according to reports , a muslim woman named yvonne hiller shot and killed two co - workers at a kraft plant in philadelphia .
the staunton police department announced friday they have made an arrest in a 41-year-old double murder case .
staunton police chief jim williams announced 61-year-old sharron diane crawford smith was arrested around 10:24 a.m. friday and charged with two counts of first degree murder .
yvonne hiller , accused in kraft shooting , is a muslim .
september 10 , 2010 .
yvonne hiller , who has been arrested and charged with the kraft shooting of her co - workers at kraft foods yesterday evening has been revealed to be a muslim who was very spiritual .
at this point it is unclear if the shooting had anything to do with the approaching anniversary of the 9 - 11 attacks on america by radical members of the muslim faith .
however it does seem odd that hiller had a . 357 magnum in her car , which is what she used .
that " s a pretty heavy - duty gun .
nbc philadelphia has interviewed another co - worker of hers , kenneth dorsey , and he said he had talked with her about her muslim faith and even wished her happy ramadan .
staunton police this morning arrested sharron diane crawford smith , of staunton , on first-degree murder charges in the 1967 slayings of two women at high 's ice cream shop .
accused philadelphia kraft foods killer held for trial .
december 7 , 2010 11 : 18 pm .
the woman who allegedly shot and killed two co - workers in september at the kraft foods plant in northeast philadelphia will face trial on multiple counts of murder and attempted murder .
at a hearing on tuesday , assistant district attorney gail fairman described 43 - year - old yvonne hiller as a " methodical killer " who waved a gun within a foot of a security guard " s face to regain access to the plant less than ten minutes after she had been escorted out .
" she returned like a grim reaper , " says ada fairman , " and she only shot the ones that she held responsible for her suspension . " .
fairman says that when hiller found a group of co - workers in a break room , she allowed one person to leave unharmed .
" at one point , there was a co - worker holding onto latoya brown , " says fairman , " and the defendant ordered that worker away , and then she shot brown . " .
hiller had repeated run - ins with co - workers , whom she accused of spraying her with a deer scent , among other things ( see related story ) .
two women were pronounced dead at the scene , and a male co - worker was wounded .
a detective testified during the preliminary hearing about hiller " s statement to police , claiming people had been spraying her for years .
the defense would not comment on strategy plans for the trial .
a onetime co-worker has been charged in the 1967 slayings of two women at an ice cream shop in staunton , but authorities said the suspect is near death with a terminal illness .
woman convicted of double murder in 2010 kraft foods rampage in ne philadelphia .
september 10 , 2012 4 : 15 pm .
a philadelphia judge today found a former kraft foods company employee guilty of murder in a workplace rampage exactly two years ago in northeast philadelphia that left two women dead and a third employee wounded .
witnesses say defendant yvonne hiller had long complained of abuse by fellow employees , claimed they were poisoning her by spraying her with chemicals including deer urine .
but authorities say the allegations were investigated by police and osha and were determined to be unfounded .
then , on september 10 , 2010 , according to a surviving victim , hiller went berserk again , cursing and making accusations and threats .
she was suspended on the spot and escorted from the building .
but , the witness says , she returned minutes later with a gun , opening fire on several employees in a break room , killing latonya brown and tanya wilson , and wounding bryant dalton .
dalton says the bullet went through his neck and lodged in his shoulder , and is still there .
in the one - day , non - jury trial , common pleas court judge benjamin lerner found hiller guilty of two counts of first - degree murder and one count of attempted murder .
the automatic sentence in life in prison , although formal sentencing will take place at a later date .
the staunton police department will hold a press conference this afternoon to address its investigation into a double murder back in 1967 .
2 dead , 1 wounded in shooting at ne phila . kraft plant .
september 10 , 2010 10 : 14 am .
police say two people have been killed and another wounded in a shooting at the kraft foods plant in northeast philadelphia .
the alleged shooter is in police custody .
kyw " s pat loeb reports that the shooting took place just after 8 : 30pm thursday night inside the old nabisco factory , along the 12000 block of roosevelt boulevard , at woodhaven road .
authorities say the incident began after the fifteen - year employee , 43 - year - old yvonne hiller , was suspended .
police commissioner charles ramsey says she was escorted out of the building and was outside for nine minutes before coming back .
" she drove her car through a barrier and entered the premises .
she had a . 357 magnum .
made her way to the third - floor mixing room , where she encountered at least three of the employees .
two , she shot and killed there in the room .
a third was also shot . " .
the third victim , identified as brian dalton , was rushed to aria health " s torresdale campus with a gunshot wound .
he was later transferred to jefferson and listed in stable condition .
officers responded to 911 calls from other employees inside the building , arriving with swat teams and other personnel who were trained in an " active shooter " situation , according to commissioner ramsey .
he says most of the other 100 workers inside were able to get out safely .
seven employees were trapped near the shooter , but cops say they were able to free them , disarm the woman , and take her into custody .
kyw " s paul kurtz reports that commissioner ramsey credits a special training program for preventing even more bloodshed last night .
the commissioner says he " s put many officers through what " s called " active shooter " training for first - responding officers .
" we " ve learned from columbine and other places that you can " t wait , you can " t just sit there and wait for swat .
you " ve got to at least make entry and try to get as many people out as possible , isolate the shooter , and then hopefully swat arrives in enough time to take care of the situation .
they did an excellent job , the 7th and 8th districts in particular .
those officers did an outstanding job . " .
and it turns out that at least seven of the officers who rushed to the kraft factory had " active shooter " training .
ramsey says he plans to expand the program .
hiller is expected to be arraigned on two murder charges and one attempted murder charge later today .
kraft foods issued a statement early this morning announcing that the northeast facility is closed until further notice .
the statement expresses condolences for the families of the dead and wounded employees , saying , " this is a tragic loss for all of us . " .
it states that kraft is working closely with the authorities as they investigate and will be providing counseling services for employees at the facility .
this morning , 41 years later , staunton police have arrested and charged sharron diane crawford smith , age 61 , with two counts of first-degree murder .
murder trial ordered for woman accused in kraft plant shootings .
posted : december 08 , 2010 .
yvonne hiller was certain she was being targeted for surreptitious "chemical abuse , " but no one believed her story .
she accused her coworkers of spraying her with deer urine , prompting her to complain to a federal safety agency .
she thought her lawncrest neighbors were running a meth lab , and she called police to her apartment numerous times "for the smell . " .
she believed that chemicals were ruining her health , and had visited several doctors and counselors since 2007 .
despite all that , she couldn't find the source of the toxins she thought were plaguing her .
hiller told homicide detectives that her mounting frustration finally culminated in september , when she went on a shooting rampage through the kraft foods plant in northeast philadelphia , where she had worked for 15 years .
in her statement , hiller admitted killing two coworkers and seriously wounding a third .
homicide detective dominic mangoni , testifying tuesday at hiller's preliminary hearing , said he asked how she felt just hours after the shootings .
"i don't feel anything , " she said , according to the statement .
"i just wish people would accept me for what i was . " .
after the hearing , hiller , 43 , was ordered held on multiple counts of murder , attempted murder , and other crimes .
an arraignment was scheduled for this month .
the defense did not call any witnesses .
hiller entered the courtroom wearing a black garment and black head scarf .
she waved and winked at a clutch of family members in the gallery .
the other side of the room was packed with family members of the victims - latonya brown , 36 , and tanya wilson , 47 , both of whom died in the third - floor break room where they were shot .
the third victim , bryant dalton , 39 , spent two weeks in the hospital and is recovering from gunshots to the neck and shoulder , prosecutors said .
after the hearing , dorothy brown said she was "heartbroken" over the death of her granddaughter , who had four children .
"she left them children , " she said , breaking into tears .
"she was a beautiful person , too . " .
stephen devine , a civil attorney for the brown family , said relatives would hold a vigil thursday at their home at 11th and poplar streets to mark the three - month anniversary of the shooting .
wilson's family and dalton also are represented by civil attorneys , but devine said it was too soon to say if they would file a lawsuit .
at the preliminary hearing , the families "heard for the first time some answers to questions they had since the tragic events occurred , " devine said .
hiller worked with the three victims in the mixing department at the plant at roosevelt boulevard and byberry road .
kraft makes ritz crackers , lorna doone cookies , and other baked goods there .
on the night of the shooting , hiller again confronted her coworkers about her belief that they were spraying her with deer scent .
"they told me they didn't know what i was talking about , " hiller said in her statement .
"i told them , 'you think this is a prank , but you don't know what this was doing to my body . ' " .
after the confrontation , hiller was suspended from her job for the second time in two months .
the other suspension came after she left a voice mail on her supervisor's phone , complaining about being sprayed .
hiller was escorted from the property .
she told detectives that she "planned on going right home . " .
"but then i started to think about the 15 years i spent there and how it was taken away from me , " she said in her statement .
she returned with a . 357 magnum that she legally owned and kept under the seat of her car .
she pointed the gun at two unarmed security guards and ordered them to let her back in the building .
she said she sought out the three coworkers from her shift and opened fire .
hiller admitted firing at several other employees , but denied shooting at the first officers who responded to the scene .
but officer michael murphy , from the seventh district , testified that hiller fired at him and two other officers from down a hallway .
the bullet , he said , went over his left shoulder and hit the wall behind him .
after shutting herself in a quality control room on the second floor , hiller made a number of phone calls to relatives and police .
a 911 supervisor persuaded her to surrender to swat officers on the scene .
police say a perth mountain climber who watched his brother fall over the edge of new zealand 's highest mountain is devastated .
british climber dies in new zealand fall .
robert buckley the second climber to die in the aoraki - mount cook national park at the weekend .
monday 16 september 2013 03 . 31 bst .
a british climber has fallen to his death in new zealand .
robert buckley , 32 , fell about 2 , 000 feet while climbing to a small hut on mount sefton in the aoraki - mount cook national park on saturday , police said .
buckley , who had been living and working in christchurch , was one of four men who were trying to climb to the sefton bivvy from mount cook village , according to new zealand media reports .
they were within 80m of their destination when buckley slipped .
his companions raised the alarm , but then got stuck .
a rescue helicopter found buckley and the others but they could not be rescued until the next morning .
buckley's body was recovered later in the day .
police said in a statement it appeared the group was insufficiently equipped and experienced for the climb .
the three other climbers were released after an examination by medical staff .
the day before buckley's death another climber , 36 - year - old duncan rait , died after slipping and falling about 200 feet from a ridge in the same national park .
the new zealand - born man , who lived in australia , had been been dropped off by helicopter and was walking to a hut when he fell in the tasman glacier area .
police spokesman dave gaskin said the deaths were a reminder that climbers needed to use extreme caution .
'i cant speak for the first death , but in this case it looks like to be a lack of experience , " gaskin told the timaru herald .
a foreign office spokeswoman said : "we are aware of the death of a british man in new zealand .
we are providing consular assistance at this time .
new zealand : british climber killed in fall .
8 : 05am uk , monday 16 september 2013 .
a 32 - year - old british climber , described as "lacking experience" , dies after falling from a mountain in new zealand .
a british man has been killed after falling around 2 , 000ft while climbing in new zealand .
robert buckley , 32 , was climbing to a small hut on mount sefton in the aoraki - mt cook national park on saturday .
he was wearing crampons but was inexperienced , local police inspector dave gaskin said .
his body was recovered by a team of rescuers on sunday afternoon after previous attempts proved unsuccessful .
three climbers who were with mr buckley were rescued after spending the night on the mountain .
they were also released after being examined by medics .
mr gaskin said : "there was a lot of snow and ice in very steep conditions .
"it appears as if the party were insufficiently equipped and inexperienced for the climb they had undertaken . " .
mr buckley's death came a day after 36 - year - old duncan raite died when he slipped and fell around 200ft from a ridge in the same national park .
the new zealand - born man , who lived in australia , had been dropped off by helicopter and was walking to a hut when he fell in the tasman glacier area .
mr gaskin said the deaths were a reminder that climbers needed to use extreme caution .
he said : "i can't speak for the first death , but in this case it looks like to be a lack of experience . " .
a foreign office spokeswoman said : "we are aware of the death of a british man in new zealand .
"we are providing consular assistance at this time . " .
an australian climber who survived two nights stuck on mount cook after seeing his brother die narrowly escaped being buried alive .
climber dead after aoraki mount cook fall .
last updated 13 : 26 14 / 09 / 2013 .
a 36 - year - old australian climber is dead after falling about 150 metres at aoraki mount cook .
the man , from hampton east , fell in the tasman glacier area .
a westpac rescue helicopter from christchurch was called about 3pm to assist with search and rescue co - ordination at the mt cook base .
when it got there , the man had been transported to mt cook village by a local helicopter service and pronounced dead by paramedics .
the man is thought to have fallen much earlier in the day .
dr mark vinar , 43 , is presumed dead after disappearing off zurbriggens ridge , on mt cook , on thursday .
two climbers killed in mt cook falls .
last updated 15 : 48 15 / 09 / 2013 .
the aoraki mt cook alpine rescue team have recovered the body of the second climber to fall to his death at mount cook national park over the weekend .
inspector dave gaskin said the man fell around 2000ft ( 609 metres ) near the mount sefton bivvy , above the mueller glacier .
"the fall was unsurvivable , " inspector gaskin said .
there were four in the climbing party .
the friends of the deceased had to stay in position overnight until the weather was suitable to carry them out by rescue helicopter this morning .
the body was recovered in the afternoon , and taken to mt cook village initially , then on to timaru .
inspector gaskin confirmed the climbing party are foreigners , but would not specify any other details until the family of the deceased had been informed .
with two deaths at mt cook national park this weekend , inspector gaskin said police and rescures were pushed to their limits .
"resources are tight , there's no doubt about that .
it's been very difficult but the guys have done a wonderful job . " .
he said the two deaths were not related to weather conditions .
"i can't speak for the first death , but in this case it looks like to be a lack of experience , " inspector gaskin said .
yesterday , a 36 - year - old australian climber died after falling about 150 metres at mt cook .
the man , from hampton east , fell in the tasman glacier area .
a westpac rescue helicopter from christchurch was called about 3pm to assist with search and rescue co - ordination at the mt cook base .
when it got there , the man had been transported to mt cook village by a local helicopter service and pronounced dead by paramedics .
the man is thought to have fallen much earlier in the day .
a colleague has paid tribute to a perth doctor feared dead after a fall from a mountain in new zealand .
english and australian climbers fall to their deaths in new zealand mountains .
one australian and one english climber have fallen to their deaths in new zealand .
8 : 44am bst 16 sep 2013 .
police inspector dave gaskin said the two incidents on consecutive days in the aoraki - mt . cook national park were not related and were not due to bad weather .
he said they come as a reminder that climbers need to use extreme caution .
on friday , 36 - year - old duncan rait died after slipping and falling about 200ft from a ridge near the tasman glacier .
the new zealand - born australian was planning to do some ski touring .
he " d been dropped off by helicopter with a group and was walking to a hut when he fell , sliding down a steep slope and over a cliff .
gaskin said that other climbers attempted to rescue raite by taking him down the glacier , but that he died on the way down .
on saturday , 32 - year - old englishman robert buckley , originally from essex , but living in christchurch , fell about 2 , 000ft while climbing to a small hut on mount sefton with three companions .
gaskin said buckley was wearing crampons but was inexperienced .
police said that mr buckley's group appeared to be "insufficiently" equipped and inexperienced for the climb they chose .
"they had hired some climbing equipment early that day and had managed to get within 80 meters of the bivvy , " police said .
"at this stage . . . one of the party has slipped on the ice and has fallen some 700 metres to his death . " .
mark vinar , an australian climber from perth , has been presumed dead after falling over half a kilometre from new zealand 's highest peak , mount cook .
september 15 , 2013 11 : 26 pm .
australian , english climbers fall to their deaths in new zealand mountains .
one australian and one english climber have fallen to their deaths in new zealand .
police inspector dave gaskin said monday the two incidents on consecutive days in the aoraki - mt . cook national park were not related and were not due to bad weather .
he says they come as a reminder that climbers need to use extreme caution .
on friday , 36 - year - old duncan raite died after slipping and falling about 60 metres ( 200 feet ) from a ridge .
the new zealand - born australian was planning to do some ski touring .
he " d been dropped off by helicopter and was walking to a hut when he fell .
on saturday , 32 - year - old englishman robert buckley fell about 600 metres ( 2 , 000 feet ) while climbing to a small hut on mount sefton .
gaskin said buckley was wearing crampons but was inexperienced .
an australian climber who watched his brother fall to his death on new zealand 's highest peak said he was expecting to die that night on the treacherous mountain .
16 september 2013 last updated at 12 : 42 gmt .
briton dies in new zealand's aoraki mount cook national park .
a british climber has fallen 2 , 000ft to his death on a mountain in new zealand , police there have said .
robert buckley , 32 , died while climbing to a hut on mount sefton in the aoraki mount cook national park on saturday .
police inspector dave gaskin said mr buckley was well equipped at the time but was an inexperienced climber .
a foreign office spokeswoman said : "we are aware of the death of a british man in new zealand .
we are providing consular assistance at this time . " .
extreme caution .
mr buckley , originally from essex in the uk , lived in new zealand , says the press association news agency .
his body was recovered by a team of rescuers on sunday afternoon after attempts on saturday were unsuccessful , according to local media reports .
three climbers with mr buckley were said to have been rescued after spending the night on the mountain .
they were were released after a medical examination .
mr buckley's death came a day after 36 - year - old duncan rait was killed after slipping and falling 200ft from a ridge in the same national park .
the new zealander , who lived in australia , had been been dropped off by helicopter and was walking to a hut when he fell in the tasman glacier area .
inspector gaskin said the deaths were a reminder that climbers needed to use extreme caution .
"i can't speak for the first death but in this case it looks like to be a lack of experience , " he told the timaru herald .
miles vinar spoke to one news about seeing his brother plunge to his death on thursday , and about his own desperate battle to stay alive on the mountain .
australian , english climbers killed in new zealand .
september 16 , 2013 11 : 12am .
one australian and one english climber have fallen to their deaths in new zealand , police confirmed today .
police inspector dave gaskin said the two incidents on consecutive days in the aoraki - mt . cook national park were not related and were not due to bad weather .
he said they come as a reminder that climbers need to use extreme caution .
on friday , 36 - year - old duncan rait died after slipping and falling about 60m from a ridge near the tasman glacier .
the new zealand - born australian was planning to do some ski touring .
he'd been dropped off by helicopter with a group and was walking to a hut when he fell , sliding down a steep slope and over a cliff .
gaskin said that other climbers attempted to rescue rait by taking him down the glacier , but that he died on the way down .
on saturday , 32 - year - old englishman robert buckley fell about 600m while climbing to a small hut on mount sefton with three companions .
gaskin said buckley was wearing crampons but was inexperienced .
a perth man has survived after spending up to two nights in an ice cave on new zealand 's mt cook after seeing his brother fall to his death from the country 's highest peak .
second climber dies at mt cook .
sun , 15 sep 2013 .
two men have died in separate climbing accidents at mt cook this weekend .
the aoraki mt cook alpine rescue team worked today to recover the body of a climber after bad weather hindered efforts yesterday .
the climber fell in fading light yesterday near the mt sefton bivvy , and rescue teams were unable to reach him or his companions due to the weather .
police are still at the scene and say more details will be released later .
the first of the deaths this weekend was that of a new zealand climber who fell on friday morning .
the 36 - year - old , who had been living in melbourne , slipped and fell approximately 200 metres down a steep ice gully as he was approaching the tasman saddle hut , police said .
his brother witnessed the fall and had to spend the night in a hut before rescuers could reach him .
the victim was still alive when rescuers reached him , helicopter line pilot jim campbell told the herald on sunday .
"he was very badly hurt and he'd lost his hat and gloves in the fall so he was very cold . " .
the rescue team had to carry the man by stretcher down a glacier , walking two hours to reach a rescue helicopter .
a westpac rescue helicopter from christchurch was called to help with search and rescue co - ordination at the mt cook base .
by the time it arrived , the man had been transported to mt cook village by a local helicopter service and had been pronounced dead by paramedics .
he had been planning a four - day ski tour of the area and was using the tasman saddle hut as a base , police said .
mr campbell said police told him the man was well - equipped but was not wearing crampons when he slipped .
a massive rescue bid was made shortly after 11am on friday , with members of the aoraki mt cook department of conservation alpine rescue team , alpine guides , the helicopter line , twizel and fairlie police and westpac rescue paramedics all called in to help .
constable joseph rush , of twizel police , said the weather conditions were severe , with poor visibility , strong wind gusts and - 15c temperatures .
the man's name will not be released until family have been notified .
a climber who watched his brother fall to his death from a notorious ridge on mt cook , is lucky to be alive after two " horrific " nights high on the mountain .
second man dies in mt cook national park .
14 : 25 sun sep 15 2013 .
a second man has fallen to his death in aoraki mount cook national park .
the man aged in his early 30s fell about 600m while climbing near the mount sefton bivvy on saturday afternoon .
rescue personnel were not able to reach him or his three companions , who were all from overseas , due to low light levels on saturday , mid - south canterbury area commander inspector dave gaskin said .
"they managed to have a look at him and it was pretty clear that there was no signs of life and they've flown in today to retrieve the body , " he told nz newswire on sunday .
the other three men were rescued by about 10am on sunday morning .
"we haven't been in a position to speak to the survivors at this stage , but it appears as if their equipment and preparation was limited , " insp gaskin said .
it was the second death in the park in two days .
a 36 - year - old man died about 11am on friday after he slipped and fell about 200m down a steep icy gully .
the man , a new zealander living in melbourne , was planning to go ski touring .
two deaths so close together was unusual for the time of year , insp gaskin said .
"we don't normally get too many climbing accidents at this time of year , it's still basically winter conditions here , so there's very little climbing done . " .
the climbing season generally starts about late october / early november .
mr gaskin urged people not to go into situations unprepared .
"this is an extremely dangerous area and if you're going to climb or come into this area and go up high in the mountains , you've got to make sure that you know what you're doing and you've got all the appropriate equipment . " .
an australian climber who survived two nights stuck on mount cook after seeing his brother die also narrowly escaped being buried alive himself .
australian ski mountaineer dies in fall in new zealand .
september 16 , 2013 9 : 36 am .
a 36 - year - old australian man died on friday after falling 150 meters from a ridge in aoraki / mt . cook national park on new zealand " s south island .
duncan robert rait , a new zealand native living in melbourne , australia , was with a group of ski mountaineers who had just arrived by helicopter to a ridge top location near the tasman saddle hut .
while en route from the drop - off location to the hut he slipped from the ridgeline and fell to his death .
rait had planned to spend four days ski touring in the area with his brother .
although not a factor in the accident , rescue efforts were hampered by weather conditions .
the rescue team were dropped at the hut and then descended to the location of the injured man as the helicopter became grounded due to poor weather .
rait was returned to mt . cook village , where he was pronounced dead .
the day following rait " s death an inexperienced and reportedly ill - equipped mountain climber with rental gear , 31 - year - old robert buckley of the u . k . but living in christchurch , new zealand , slipped on ice and fell 700 meters to his own death elsewhere in the same national park .
robbers in drag steal e80 million from paris diamond store in biggest french heist .
paris thieves nab $2 . 5 million worth of jewellery .
robbers crash 4x4 into store , grabbing jewelry and watches , before setting car ablaze .
four men rammed their car into an upmarket jewellery store in central paris on monday , smashing the shop window and making off with a two - million - euro ( $2 . 6 - million ) booty , a police source said .
the heist near the upscale place vendome is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
the police source , who wished to remain anonymous , said the men drove a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hours of the morning and grabbed jewellery and luxury watches worth an estimated two million euros .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escaped in another car .
forensic investigators are currently going through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first district of paris , which is home to numerous jewellery shops .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewellery worth 103 million euros in one of the world's biggest ever heists .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost all of the stock of gems from the harry winston jewellery store .
in 2009 , police said they had recovered 80 percent of the haul .
the four robbers , two of whom were disguised as women , stole nearly all the jewellery on display at harry winston jewellers on the avenue montaigne , just off the champs-elysees in the french capital .
9 september 2013 , 14 : 08 .
paris : jewellery stolen in casty shop raid .
jewellery and watches worth #1 . 7m have been stolen during a heist in an upmarket central paris shop .
four men drove a 4x4 through the front window of the store on rue de castiglione , before making off with the jewellery and watches .
they then set fire to the vehicle before fleeing in another car .
forensic policemen are examining the casty store in the central first district of the capital , home to numerous jewellery shops .
the heist near place vendome is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a robbery at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewellery worth #88m in one of the world's biggest ever heists .
and last month thieves made off with #35 , 000 of jewellery after cracking two safes at the luxury grand hotel du cap in saint - jean - cap - ferrat , near nice .
in may , thieves stole #910 , 000 worth of jewellery from an employee of swiss firm chopard that was due to be loaned to film stars during the cannes film festival and a second theft saw a diamond necklace worth #1 . 2m stolen .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost the entire stock of gems from the harry winston jewellery store .
police said they had recovered 80% of the haul in 2009 .
harry winston diamond corp. 's prestigious paris jewellery store near the champs-elysee was stormed by as many as four robbers on thursday afternoon .
armed robbers stole gems worth 85 million euros ( 74 million pounds ) from luxury jewellers in the heart of paris , during a raid described by french media on friday as the most lucrative heist in france 's history .
french police say armed robbers cleaned out a high-end jewelry store yesterday in paris , news organizations report .
three or four robbers burst into the store on ritzy avenue montaigne near the champs-elysees late thursday afternoon and stole watches , rings and necklaces .
four armed robbers -- two dressed as women -- made off with $ 137-million of diamonds and jewels from a famed paris store .
paris hit by 2 mn - euro jewelry heist .
four men rammed their car into an upmarket jewelry store in central paris on monday , smashing the shop window and making off with a two - million - euro ( $2 . 6 - million ) booty , a police source said .
the heist near the upscale place vendome is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
the police source , who wished to remain anonymous , said the men drove a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hours of the morning and grabbed jewelry and luxury watches worth an estimated two million euros .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escaped in another car .
forensic policemen are currently going through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first district of paris , which is home to numerous jewelry shops .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewelry worth 103 million euros in one of the world's biggest ever heists .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost all of the stock of gems from the harry winston jewelry store .
in 2009 , police said they had recovered 80 percent of the haul .
armed robbers in drag carried out one of the biggest jewel heists in history , snatching p74million of diamond rings , necklaces and luxury watches from a boutique in paris .
two million euro jewellery heist in central paris .
thieves pulled off a two million - euro jewellery heist in central paris on monday morning after smashing their car through the store's front window .
12 : 48pm bst 09 sep 2013 .
four men rammed their car into the casty store near paris's chic place vendme in the latest in a spate of high - profile robberies in france -- most on the riviera .
a police source said the men drove a large four - by - four car into the store at around 4 . 30am and grabbed jewellery and luxury watches worth an estimated two million euros ( #1 . 7 million ) .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escaped in another car .
the entire robbery was over in a matter of minutes .
forensic teams were examining the crime scene on rue de castiglione in paris' first arrondissement , home to numerous jewellery shops .
"they are absolutely not afraid of anything , " grard bnzat , the store's insurer , told france info .
"it's become almost routine and yet everyone knows what needs to be done to be protected . " .
armed robbers stole diamonds valued at 85 million euros ( $ 108 million ) from the paris branch of jeweler harry winston , the city prosecutors ' office said .
thieves in $2 . 6 million smash - and - grab raid on paris jewelry store .
a smash - and - grab on a high end paris store saw four robbers make off with jewelry and watches valued at over $2 . 6 million early monday .
at around 4 : 30 a . m . local time ( 11 . 30 p . m . et ) the thieves rammed an suv into the front of the casty store , near the prestigious place vendome , a well - known square in the center of the french capital that is home to a number of jewelers and high - end stores .
after scooping up jewelry and watches estimated to be worth 2 million euros ( $2 . 6 million ) the thieves reversed their car out of the store and set fire to it before making off in another vehicle , le monde reported .
the raid comes little over a month after a masked bandit made off with an $136m worth of diamonds and jewels from the carlton intercontinental hotel in cannes on the glamorous french riviera , in possibly the world " s biggest heist .
a lone robber entered through a french door at the side of the building on the famed la croisette seafront , scooped up the loot and then jumped out of another window .
despite a huge police investigation , the audacious culprit remains at large .
thieves also targeted the annual cannes film festival , stealing almost $2 million of jewelry from the safe in the hotel room of an american jeweler working for chopard , one of switzerland " s most famous diamond merchants .
days later a $2 . 5 million necklace was lifted by a crook at a movie industry party at the even more exclusive resort of cap d " antibes , near the italian border .
armed robbers - some disguised as women - snatched $ 108 million worth of diamond rings , necklaces and luxury watches from a harry winston boutique on a posh paris avenue in one of the largest jewel heists in history , officials said friday .
9 september 2013 last updated at 14 : 39 gmt .
france jewels thefts : robbers ram 4x4 into paris shop .
french police are investigating a daring jewellery robbery in paris - the latest in a series of high - profile thefts in france this summer .
in the early hours of monday , thieves rammed a 4x4 vehicle through the windows of an upmarket jewellery store near the prestigious place vendome .
they made off with 2m euros ( #1 . 7m ; $2 . 6m ) in gems and watches .
in july , a masked jewel thief stole #88m worth of precious stones from the carlton hotel in cannes .
after monday's robbery , the thieves set fire to the 4x4 vehicle in an adjacent side street and made off in a second car .
many of the most famous names in jewellery have their flagship stores in the place vendome , and this is a further embarrassment to the french authorities who have seen a spate of robberies in recent weeks , says the bbc's christian fraser in paris .
inevitably , the finger will again be pointed at the pink panther gang , a loosely aligned network of criminals who are believed to have carried out 300 similar robberies across the world since 1999 , our correspondent says .
the international police agency interpol has recently begun co - ordinating its efforts to track down the gangs' members , many of them from the former yugoslavia .
in 2007 , the gang drove two cars through the window of a jewellery store in dubai , and in less than a minute had escaped with 11m euros of jewellery .
armed thieves have carried out another brazen and meticulously planned robbery of the harry winston store in central paris , making off with an estimated $ 102 million in jewelry .
ram - raiders hit paris jewellery store for $2m .
published : 09 sep 2013 11 : 25 gmt+02 : 00 .
updated : 09 sep 2013 11 : 25 gmt+02 : 00 .
ram - raiders ploughed their vehicle into an upmarket jewellery boutique near place vendme in central paris on monday in a dramatic dawn robbery , making off with $2 million worth of loot .
four men rammed their car into an upmarket jewellery store in central paris on monday , smashing the shop window and making off with a $2 million ( $2 . 6 - million ) booty , a police source said .
the heist near the upscale place vendme is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
the police source , who wished to remain anonymous , said the men drove a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hours of the morning and grabbed jewellery and luxury watches worth an estimated $2 million .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escaped in another car .
forensic policemen are currently going through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first arrondissement of paris , which is home to numerous jewellery shops .
paris also witnessed another dramatic robbery on sunday night when thieves armed with kalashnikovs stormed a subsidiary of the france's rail operator sncf in the capital's 15th arrondissement .
according to reports , the robbers escaped with around $60 , 000 from the company which is in charge of managing restaurant cars on the tgv trains .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewellery worth $103 million in one of the world's biggest ever heists .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost all of the stock of gems from the harry winston jewellery store .
in 2009 , police said they had recovered 80 percent of the haul .
a savvy band of jewel thieves , armed with guns and some posing as women , have struck in the heart of the city 's golden triangle of luxury shops , stealing more than e85 million worth of diamonds , rings and watches from a posh harry winston boutique .
paris : jewellery stolen in casty shop raid .
11 : 39am uk , monday 09 september 2013 .
four men smash their car into a jewellery store before fleeing in a different vehicle in the latest high - profile heist in france .
jewellery and watches worth #1 . 7m have been stolen during a heist in an upmarket central paris shop .
four men drove a 4x4 through the front window of the store on rue de castiglione , before making off with the jewellery and watches .
they then set fire to the vehicle before fleeing in another car .
forensic policemen are examining the casty store in the central first district of the capital , home to numerous jewellery shops .
the heist near place vendome is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a robbery at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewellery worth #88m in one of the world's biggest ever heists .
and last month thieves made off with #35 , 000 of jewellery after cracking two safes at the luxury grand hotel du cap in saint - jean - cap - ferrat , near nice .
in may , thieves stole #910 , 000 worth of jewellery from an employee of swiss firm chopard that was due to be loaned to film stars during the cannes film festival and a second theft saw a diamond necklace worth #1 . 2m stolen .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost the entire stock of gems from the harry winston jewellery store .
police said they had recovered 80% of the haul in 2009 .
a gang of four thieves -- two of them disguised as women -- on thursday stole nearly all the jewels on display at the harry winston boutique just off the champs-elysees avenue , which attracts a wealthy international clientele .
france hit by another jewellery heist .
9 september 2013 11 : 55 .
four men rammed their car into an up - market jewellery store in central paris today , smashing the shop window and making off with a $2 million ( r26 million ) booty , a police source said .
the heist near the upscale place vendome is the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robberies in the southern resort of cannes .
the police source , who wished to remain anonymous , said the men drove a large 44 car into the store in the early hours of the morning , and grabbed jewellery and luxury watches worth an estimated $2 million .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escaped in another car .
forensic policemen are currently going through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first district of paris , which is home to numerous jewellery shops .
at the end of july , an armed man carried out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in cannes , making off with jewellery worth $103 million in one of the world " s biggest heists .
paris has also been the scene of high - profile robberies .
in december 2008 , three men emptied almost all of the stock of gems from the harry winston jewellery store .
in 2009 , police said they had recovered 80% of the haul .
jewellery worth more than $ 160 million has been stolen from a paris boutique in what is believed to be france 's biggest jewellery theft .
paris store hit by $2 . 6 million jewelry heist .
september 9 , 2013 .
four men rammed their car into an upmarket jewelry store in central paris on monday , smashing the shop window and stealing $2 . 6 million ( two million euros ) in jewelry , according to afp .
the heist near place vendome is the latest to hit france after a string of high - profile robberies in cannes .
a police source reported that the men drove a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hours of the morning , grabbing jewelry and luxury watches before setting fire to the vehicle and escaping in another car .
daring diamond heist in downtown paris .
at 5:30 p.m . , four armed robbers , some reportedly dressed in drag , entered the store on the chic avenue montaigne , off the champs elysees in central paris , a heavily patrolled area less than 330 feet from a police station .
crooks at $2 . 6 million heist on paris jewelry store .
a smash - and - grab on a high end paris store saw four robbers make off with jewelry and watches valued at over $2 . 6 million early monday .
at around 4 : 30 a . m . local time ( 11 . 30 p . m . et ) the thieves rammed an suv into the front of the casty store , near the prestigious place vendome , a well - known square in the center of the french capital that is home to a number of jewelers and high - end stores .
after scooping up jewelry and watches estimated to be worth 2 million euros ( $2 . 6 million ) the thieves reversed their car out of the store and set fire to it before making off in another vehicle , le monde reported .
the raid comes little over a month after a masked bandit made off with an $136m worth of diamonds and jewels from the carlton intercontinental hotel in cannes on the glamorous french riviera , in possibly the world " s biggest heist .
a lone robber entered through a french door at the side of the building on the famed la croisette seafront , scooped up the loot and then jumped out of another window .
despite a huge police investigation , the audacious culprit remains at large .
thieves also targeted the annual cannes film festival , stealing almost $2 million of jewelry from the safe in the hotel room of an american jeweler working for chopard , one of switzerland " s most famous diamond merchants .
days later a $2 . 5 million necklace was lifted by a crook at a movie industry party at the even more exclusive resort of cap d " antibes , near the italian border .
new orleans saints rb reggie bush 's season over .
the associated press reports new orleans saints running back reggie bush ( knee ) will miss the rest of the season .
bush underwent an mri earlier this week , and head coach sean payton decided the team would place bush on injured reserve .
it has been a disappointing campaign for bush ; .
the 2006 second-overall pick played in just 10 games this year , rushing for 404 yards and two touchdowns while catching 52 passes for 440 yards and four scores .
however , he missed time because of arthroscopic knee surgery earlier this year and apparently a knee sprain will halt his season .
in bush 's absence this year , running back pierre thomas has established himself as a legitimate no. 1 back .
he has 189 rushing yards and two touchdowns in his last two games .
he has also caught eight passes for 66 yards and two touchdowns .
of his 11 touchdowns this year , eight have come since the start of week 11 .
he has 548 rushing yards , 28 receptions and 258 receiving yards this season .
running back deuce mcallister could see a few more touches with bush out , yet even when bush was out earlier this year , mcallister only once received more than eight utilizations in a game ; the team used him 22 times in week 8. mcallister has just 317 rushing yards on the season and only 54 since the team 's week 9 bye .
however , he does have three of his four touchdowns in that stretch .
fullback mike karney has received five utilizations in the last two weeks , though most are on short-yardage situations .
fantasy owners carrying bush have almost certainly missed out on thomas ; .
if for some reason he is available , pick him up immediately .
mcallister is a last-ditch flex option as the saints face the detroit lions in week 16 , but playing him is a risk given thomas ' versatility .
karney is not a viable fantasy back .
saints place pierre thomas on injured reserve ; sign joique bell off eagles practice squad .
wednesday , 05 january 2011 .
the injury woes continued wednesday for the defending super bowl champion new orleans saints , who have placed veteran running back pierre thomas on season - ending reserve .
thomas' spot on the 53 - man roster was quickly filled with the signing of undrafted rookie running back joique bell ( 5 - 11 , 220 ) , who comes to the black and gold from the philadelphia eagles practice squad .
thomas is the fifth saints running back to go on ir this season , the second in two days , the third in less than a month .
on tuesday , team officials placed undrafted rookie running back chris ivory on ir with a lisfranc injury to his left foot .
on dec . 8 , veteran running back ladell betts went on ir with a neck injury .
bell ( 5 - 11 , 220 ) played at wayne state .
the saints ( 11 - 5 ) face the nfc west - champion seattle seahawks ( 7 - 9 ) in a wildcard game at 3 : 30 p . m . saturday at qwest field .
the new orleans saints placed reggie bush on the injured list on wednesday , ending the national football league season for the star running back .
the 23-year-old bush will miss the team 's final two regular season games against detroit and carolina with a sprained left knee .
bush finished his third season in new orleans with just 404 yards and two touchdowns on 106 carries .
bush suffered a left knee injury against carolina on october 19 .
he appeared to be on the mend , but he sprained the knee in last thursday 's 27-24 overtime loss at chicago and was limited to only 30 yards on six carries .
saints' pierre thomas placed on ir .
updated : january 6 , 2011 , 11 : 34 am et .
the defending champion saints will have try to repeat without their top two power running backs .
pierre thomas , one of the stars of last season's super bowl run , was placed on injured reserve on wednesday because of his injured ankle .
the saints made that move only one day after placing leading rusher chris ivory on injured reserve because of a left foot injury that occurred during sunday's regular season finale .
"that's tough , " quarterback drew brees said of the loss of both running backs this week .
"you can't deny that just because of the physical presence they bring and obviously their productivity . " .
when the saints ( 11 - 5 ) open the playoffs in seattle ( 7 - 9 ) on saturday , the only remaining healthy running backs from their regular season roster will be reggie bush and julius jones .
"naturally , i'm going to have to step up , " bush said .
bush missed eight games with a fracture in his lower right leg .
he has rushed for only 150 yards and has not scored a rushing touchdown this season , but started to look stronger on sunday against tampa bay , when he had 70 yards rushing on just nine carries and had 55 yards receiving on five catches .
jones has 193 yards and no touchdowns on the ground .
the only other running backs on the roster are fourth - year pro deshawn wynn , who was signed on tuesday but also was with the saints during the preseason , and rookie joique bell , who was signed wednesday from the philadelphia eagles' practice squad .
brees said he remained optimistic that the versatility of the saints' offense and the way they spread the ball among so many players will allow them to weather such injuries perhaps better than most teams .
"in the end , you just work to the strengths of the guys that you have .
you don't worry about what you don't have , just what you have , " brees said .
"while you would love to have all of the guys and all of the elements that they bring , i feel like reggie bush can do some pretty special stuff and julius jones can do some pretty special stuff .
deshawn wynn , when called upon , can do the job .
you realize that the passing game may have to pick up some slack at times depending on how the game plan changes by having those guys in . " .
bush , who returned from his broken right fibula on thanksgiving , said he has been feeling stronger lately and is looking forward to the chance to be the primary running back .
however , he stressed that the success of the offense would hinge on many more factors than him .
"it's about a team effort .
it's not just about one person , " bush said .
"we have some mistakes that we made as a team throughout the season on offense , defense and special teams that we've got to clean up .
the running back position is just one small piece of the puzzle . " .
yet as the playoffs approached , the saints had been optimistic their offense would be better with thomas , who scored memorable touchdowns in both the nfc title game and super bowl last season .
plagued by a left ankle injury that limited him to only six games this season , thomas started to look effective again in a 17 - 14 victory at atlanta in week 16 , when he had 102 yards from scrimmage and a touchdown .
however , he aggravated the injury in practice last week and sat out the regular season finale .
"the setback he had was substantial and we're at that point in the season where you want to do what's best , and yet you want to be mindful of the injury the player has , " saints coach sean payton said .
"so i think on all fronts - - doctors , trainers , the player and ourselves - - we felt that this was the best move . " .
thomas initially was hurt in an overtime loss to atlanta in week 3 , then missed nine games before coming back for three late - season games .
he finished with 269 yards and two touchdown rushing and caught 29 passes for 201 yards .
late this season , thomas also had handled kickoff returns after courtney roby was placed on injured reserve with a head injury .
payton said receivers devery henderson and robert meachem are getting most of the practice time in that area this week .
ivory's injury is a lisfranc , which is a fracture and dislocation in the mid - foot , and will require surgery , payton said .
after joining the saints as an undrafted rookie out of division ii tiffin , he rushed for 716 yards in 12 games and had a team - leading five rushing tds .
the new orleans saints placed reggie bush on injured reserve today , officially ending his third nfl season .
it 's the second straight year that bush failed to make it to the last week of the season .
it 's also the second straight year that bush took steps backward after a strong rookie season .
bush , who missed several games after arthroscopic knee surgery earlier this season , wraps up the year with 404 yards rushing and 440 yards receiving .
he scored six touchdowns on offense and added three more on punt returns .
there 's nothing wrong with nine touchdowns in 10 games , but bush 's inability to stay on the field has made him something less than the saints expected with the second overall pick in the 2006 draft .
leon washington of the jets , a fourth-rounder that year , has turned in similar production as bush this season ( in more games ) but costs his team much less money .
making matters worse is the fact that the relationship between bush and coach sean payton seems to be deteriorating .
bush expressed unhappiness about being yanked from last week 's loss to the bears , two weeks after payton made a similar move against the bucs .
whatever his shortcomings , bush could still play an important role in the supercharged saints offense .
unless he loses payton 's faith once and for all , of course .
reggie bush is done , for the season at least .
bush sprained the medial collateral ligament in his left knee in the saints ' game against the chicago bears thursday night .
he originally injured it against the carolina panthers earlier this season and needed surgery on it .
the saints still have to play the winless detroit lions and the playoff-bound panthers .
head coach sean payton said bush 's knee does not need surgery this time , just a little r and r , he also said that if the team were still in playoff contention , then he would n't have place bush on ir .
saints ' spokesman greg bensel confirmed wednesday owner tom benson underwent surgery december 10 to remove a cancerous growth on his left kidney. bensel said in a statement released by the team .
benson is under the primary care of his personal physician and saints team doctor , john r. amoss , who said he expects a full recovery .
" it was diagnosed as early-stage renal cell cancer , and the prognosis for this type of cancer removed at this stage is excellent , " said amoss .
" we anticipate a full and complete recovery , and he will not need any radiation or chemotherapy . " .
the 81-year old is at home , and will miss the team 's trip to detroit , but will be back at the office next week sometime .
pierre thomas is headed to injured reserve .
posted on january 5 , 2011 , 3 : 37 pm edt .
pierre thomas and chris ivory are out .
deshawn wynn and joique bell are in .
suddenly , the no . 5 saints don " t look as quite as big a threat to make a repeat trip to the super bowl .
one day after chris ivory was surprisingly lost for the season , the saints placed thomas on injured reserve .
the team " s best running back also sat out in week 17 .
coach sean payton said thomas suffered a setback in practice last week .
we " ve been toying with the idea of picking the saints to make it back to the super bowl .
they " ve turned the ball over too much , but their defense is a lot better than people think .
this news makes it harder .
it " s going to be a lot harder for the new orleans offense to stay balanced with reggie bush and julius jones carrying the load .
wynn and bell were added to the roster in the last two days , but figure to be reserves .
bush placed on injured reserve .
the saints placed running back reggie bush on injured reserve ending his season .
the decision was made after bush met with dr. james andrews this past week .
bush injured his left knee on oct. 19 and had arthroscopic surgery to fix a torn meniscus and missed four games .
he was bothered by the knee last week against the bears and did n't play in the second half .
pierre thomas will get most of the carries and is an excellent play against the lions this week .
likely foe : saints suffer major injury , thomas to ir .
4 : 31 pm january 5 , 2011 .
the saints have placed running back pierre thomas on injured reserve .
here " s the story from my buddy mike tripplett over at the new orleans times - picayune .
in the saints 17 - 14 victory over the falcons on dec . 27 , thomas rushed for 63 yards and scored on a 2 - yard touchdown in the second quarter .
he joins the team " s top rusher , chris ivory , on the injured reserve .
it looks like reggie bush will have to carry the rushing load .
they also recently signed rookie joique bell ( wayne state ) from the philadelphia eagles " practice squad .
they also signed veteran deshawn wynn ( florida ) on tuesday to serve as a backup behind bush and julius jones .
if the saints beat seattle and philadelphia beats green bay , the falcons will face the saints at 8 p . m . saturday , jan . 15 at the georgia dome .
saints could shut down reggie bush ?
the biloxi sun herald suggests that reggie bush ( knee ) could be shut down for the remainder of the saints ' season .
beat writer larry holder puts this in a one liner , saying bush " could sit out the final two games . " .
it may be speculative , or holder has reasoning behind it that he does n't give .
we 'll know more about bush wednesday , when the saints practice and hopefully reveal the results of his mri .
pierre thomas out for playoffs after saints place him on ir .
posted on january 5 , 2011 at 3 : 39 pm .
updated wednesday , jan 5 at 5 : 53 pm .
the saints placed running back pierre thomas on ir wednesday , the second time in as many days the team has placed one of its primary running backs on the list .
new orleans picked up deshawn wynn on monday after putting chris ivory on injured reserve and on wednesday , signed joique bell to replace thomas .
" with pierre , last week during practice he had a setback , " head coach sean payton said .
" we got to that point in discussing it with him where it was at .
he came back and was very effective for a couple of games , particular the atl game .
but the setback was substantial .
" we " re at the time of year where you want to do what " s best .
the doctors , trainers and ourselves , we thought it was the best move . " .
new orleans plays at seattle on saturday at 3 : 30 p . m . in the wild card round of the nfc playoffs .
while thomas went on ir , four others did not practice .
defensive tackle anthony hargrove ( knee ) , tight end jimmy graham ( ankle ) , linebacker danny clark ( hamstring ) and defensive back malcolm jenkins ( knee ) all sat out .
tight ends jeremy shockey ( groin ) and david thomas ( knee ) both were limited while receiver marques colston ( knee ) and defensive end alex brown ( shoulder ) both were full .
thomas came into 2010 as the team " s leading returning rusher from the saints " super bowl winning season .
he had 793 yards and six touchdowns on 147 carries and caught 39 passes for 302 yards and another two touchdowns .
but he missed 10 total games this season and had only 269 yards and two touchdowns on 83 carries and another 201 yards on 29 catches .
the saints have had a season - long struggle with the running back corps , dating back to training camp when lynell hamilton was lost for the season when he tore up his knee in practices with new england .
less than three weeks later , p . j . hill was placed on ir with a torn triceps that he injured in a preseason game against houston .
reggie bush was lost for half the season after breaking his right fibula in new orleans " sept . 20 win over san francisco .
a week later , pierre thomas went out for nearly nine weeks when he severely sprained his ankle late in new orleans " loss to atlanta .
but while bush has returned and played in the past six games , thomas was back for only three games before being listed on the inactive list for the regular season ender against tampa bay .
he tweaked the same left ankle that bothered him originally the friday before the game against the bucs .
bell ( 5 - foot - 11 , 220 pounds ) has spent time with the indianapolis colts , philadelphia and buffalo this season , but has no carries .
he played at wayne state , where he finished with 6 , 728 yards rushing with 96 touchdowns in addition to 918 yards and four scores receiving .
saints place bush on ir .
the new orleans saints have placed running back reggie bush on injured reserve because of a sprained knee .
bush was hurt last thursday in a 27-24 loss to chicago .
the saints are 7-7 and were eliminated from playoff contention over the weekend .
the third-year star from southern california was the team 's second-leading rusher and receiver this season , despite missing four games to recover from arthroscopic surgery for a knee injury suffered in an october 19 game against carolina .
bush will finish the year with 404 yards rushing and a pair of touchdowns , as well as 52 catches for 440 yards and four scores .
he also returned three punts for touchdowns .
the saints signed cornerback michael lehan to fill the vacant roster spot .
injured saints rb reggie bush to miss last 2 games .
running back reggie bush will miss the final two games of the new orleans saints ' season .
the knee was examined over the weekend and coach sean payton said at practice on wednesday that the team decided to put bush on injured reserve .
payton said the saints , who were eliminated from playoff contention over the weekend , would not have placed bush on injured reserve if they were still fighting to reach the postseason .
he said bush 's injury does not require surgery , just rest and rehabilitation .
bush rushed for 404 yards and two touchdowns , caught 52 passes for 440 yards and four tds , and scored three touchdowns on punt runbacks this season .
saints shut down bush .
running back to miss games against lions and panthers .
reggie bush 's injury-hit season has come to an early end due to a sprained left knee .
the running back has been placed on injured reserve by the new orleans saints , meaning he will miss the final two games against detroit and carolina .
the 23-year-old finished his third season with the franchise with 404 yards rushing on 106 carries , scoring two touchdowns on the ground .
bush picked up the problem in the saints ' overtime loss to the chicago bears in week 15 , a result that ended their hopes of reaching the play-offs .
with nothing to play for but pride in the final two weeks , new orleans have decided to rest him for the remainder of the season .
it is not the first time this year bush has had a problem with his left knee .
he missed four games after having arthroscopic surgery back in october .
the saints signed cornerback michael lehan , who had been with the miami dolphins , to fill the roster spot , despite being short-handed at running back .
already without deuce mcallister , coach sean payton will now rely on pierre thomas and mike bell , who has had only six carries this season , having signed for the team in week 12 .
the tampa bay buccaneers have also lost a player to injury , a fractured right forearm sidelining jermaine phillips for the remainder of the season .
the strong safety , who ranks fifth on the team with 86 tackles , was injured during the 13-10 overtime loss to the atlanta falcons last sunday .
phillips had already missed three games earlier this season with a fractured left forearm .
the bucs will have to do without him in their bid to reach the play-offs .
tampa have signed defensive end patrick chukwurah and linebacker rod wilson to bolster their defence , while releasing running back noah herron .
jan 05 , 2011 .
saints place rb pierre thomas on injured reserve .
one day after placing leading rusher chris ivory on injured reserve , the saints have lost another rb for the season .
coach sean payton announced wednesday that pierre thomas was placed on ir .
thomas suffered through an injury - plagued 2010 season , missing 10 of the saints' 16 games with a troublesome left ankle sprain .
he returned to play in weeks 14 - 16 , but missed new orleans' season - finale after tweaking the injury .
ivory made the most of his opportunities with thomas and reggie bush ( broken tibia ) missing time with injuries .
the undrafted rookie averaged 5 . 2 yards a carry and finished with a team - high 716 yards rushing and five touchdowns .
the saints re - signed rb deshawn wynn to take ivory's place on the roster on tuesday .
after putting thomas on ir wednesday , new orleans replaced him by signing rb joique bell off the eagles' practice squad .
thomas joins a growing tally of shelved saints rbs .
ladell betts went on ir in early december and the team lost lynell hamilton and p . j . hill to season - ending injuries during the preseason .
bush , veteran julius jones and wynn are expected to carry the load as the saints try to defend their title .
new orleans begins its postseason saturday at 4 : 30 p . m . et with a wild - card round game in seattle against the nfc west champion seahawks .
saints place rb bush on injured reserve .
the injury-plagued season of new orleans saints running back reggie bush is over .
the saints placed bush on the injured reserve list wednesday with a sprained left knee , meaning he will miss the team 's final two games against detroit and carolina .
however , given his limited effectiveness last week , the saints decided to shut him down for the remainder of the season .
the former southern california star finished his third season in new orleans with just 404 yards and two touchdowns on 106 carries .
bush suffered a left knee injury against carolina on october 19 and missed the next four games following arthroscopic surgery .
he returned to action against tampa bay on october 30 and scored a touchdown the following week against atlanta .
bush appeared to be on the mend , but he sprained the knee in last thursday 's 27-24 overtime loss at chicago and was limited to only 30 yards on six carries .
on saturday , new orleans coach sean payton indicated that bush would not return to the lineup until further undergoing a further evaluation .
however , given his limited effectiveness last week , the saints decided to shut him down for the remainder of the season .
bush 's absence leaves the saints furthered shorthanded in the backfield as they are now down to pierre thomas and mike bell , who has had only six carries this season after signing with new orleans in week 12 .
to take bush 's roster spot , the saints signed cornerback michael lehan , who had been with the miami dolphins .
in case you had any doubts whether or not pierre thomas ( left ) would get more carries than reggie bush , you can now have full faith in thomas .
after spraining his knee last week at chicago , bush has been placed on the injured reserve list ending his season .
hello , mr. thomas. owners have been worried that thomas ' carries would be affected by bush 's return , but those worries are all for naught .
with bush completely out of the picture , thomas is the lone back and could capitalize in a big way in his two remaining games .
remember , thomas is still playing for a contract .
the saints take on the 0-14 lions , and it appears the saints will march into motown and hand them no. 15 .
the lions have the league 's worst rushing defense , and teams do n't need to throw a lot because offenses are able to run wild .
good news for pierre owners .
thomas is an elite rb going forward , and those of you lucky enough to nab him should reap the benefits. make sure he 's in your lineups for championship weeks .
since week 11 , thomas has eight touchdowns on 498 rushing yards and 176 receiving yards .
not bad for a late waiver-wire guy , huh ?
as far as bush is concerned , the saints are erring on the side of caution regarding the injury .
with the playoffs out of the picture , there 's no need to worsen the injury .
he 'll be a top ppr running back in 2009 .
pierre thomas placed on injured reserve by new orleans saints .
jan 5 , 2011 .
pierre thomas was placed on injured reserve by the new orleans saints on wednesday , meaning he won't play in the 2011 nfl playoffs .
losing thomas is bad enough , but it is compiled with the fact that they just lost chris ivory on tuesday .
this means they will be missing two of their best players in the rushing game , and it could weaken the attack that the saints have on offense even further .
coach sean payton announced it himself on wednesday , revealing through the new orleans saints twitter account that thomas had been placed on ir .
it was a very shocking revelation in the roster moves the saints have been making and any saints fan that came into the postseason extremely confident about their team should be a tad worried about what the saints can do now .
they still have reggie bush and julius jones to head the running game , so at least the saints weren't left empty handed .
last season it was thomas that led the saints in rushing , posting 793 total yards in 14 games .
he had been hobbled this year , and that was the main reason that ivory ended up seeing so much playing time .
ivory rushed for 716 yards this year , leading the saints in rushing , and giving them a great option as they tried to survive without thomas and bush behind quarterback drew brees on offense .
we reported tuesday how ivory is done for the year , and it raises the chances of seattle pulling off an upset on saturday .
the seattle vs . new orleans game will be the first one on wild card weekend , with kickoff scheduled for 1 : 30 p . m . pst .
seattle is the big underdog in this game , even though it is the team hosting the game .
getting to play in front of the home crowd and going up against a banged - up saints team could be exactly what the seahawks need to pull an upset , but they will need quarterback matt hasselbeck to come up huge as well .
hasselbeck had more than 300 passing yards against the saints back in week 11 , so maybe seattle has a chance after all .
as for the saints on offense , they still have super bowl mvp drew brees taking the snaps .
he is having a bit of a down year by his standards , especially in the category of interceptions , but this is still a guy who could throw for 400 yards on any given night .
a lot will be asked of him on saturday , but he has been in pressure - packed games quite a few times at this point in his career .
the saints have placed bush ( knee ) on injured reserve , the baton rouge advocate reports .
bush tweaked his left knee last thursday and coach sean payton said the saints decided to put the running back on ir after determining that he would be unavailable for the team 's final two games .
the positive here is that bush 's injury should n't impact his 2009 availability .
pierre thomas figures to see the bulk of the saints ' carries the next couple of weeks , as a result .
january 5 , 2011 at 12 : 19 pm .
saints rb pierre thomas placed on injured reserve .
the new orleans saints placed pierre thomas on injured reserve wednesday because of an ankle injury .
thomas missed nine games this season because of the injury , including the regular - season finale .
he is the second running back in two days to be placed on injured reserve .
chris ivory was placed on the list tuesday .
that means former seahawk julius jones and reggie bush will likely get most of the workload .
"we've just got to get the next guy up and make sure we're prepared , " new orleans coach sean payton said in a conference call with seattle - area reporters .
so is the next guy in line jones ?
"i wouldn't assume he's taking the bulk of the carries , " payton said .
"i was in dallas when we drafted him so i'm familiar with the player .
he's filled in in a real good role for us .
i think he's smart .
he's someone that typically does the right thing , and the other thing is , he's healthy .
so from a repetition standpoint , he's gotten x number of carries and plays , but not too many .
so what's most important now on a short week for both teams is being rested both physically and mentally and prepared to play in this game , and i know he will be . " .
the new orleans saints placed running back reggie bush on injured reserve wednesday , ending the former first-round picks season two games short of the year 's finale with a sprained medial collateral ligament in his left knee .
bush missed four games earlier this season after undergoing arthroscopic surgery to repair the meniscus on his left knee and it appears it was injured in the saints ' thursday night loss to chicago .
" right now , for him , it 's going to be rehab and rest with it , " saints head coach sean payton said .
" with two weeks remaining in the season , we thought that was the best way to go with his injury and allowed us acquire another player . " .
payton added , " he would n't be put on ir if we had more than two weeks or three weeks left in the season .
the news is fairly good , which is encouraging . " .
bush was unavailable for comment wednesday and will see dr. james andrews in birmingham , ala. , for further evaluation friday .
he missed games against san diego , atlanta , kansas city and green bay midway through this season after getting injured in new orleans ' 30-7 oct. 19 loss at carolina .
payton pulled bush in the second half of the loss to the bears and following the game , bush expressed frustration with the move .
saints quarterback drew brees understands .
" he was frustrated. he 's not the only one , " brees said .
" there 's a lot of guys who get frustrated when maybe you want to play and you 're not or you know you 're not 100 percent healthy and it 's affecting you .
that frustrates you . " .
" he 's used to being the guy , " brees continued .
" he 's used to being the one everyone counts on in the clutch situations , all the way from high school to college .
that 's what 's in his makeup .
that 's what 's in his blood .
he 's an extremely competitive guy . " .
the former usc running back and heisman trophy winner also missed the final four games of the 2007 season after tearing the posterior cruciate ligament in his left knee .
but payton said the injuries this year are n't related to his injury a year ago and he 's not concerned with the long-term prognosis of the third-year pro .
" we 're encouraged with the overall outlook and not having surgery it appears right now , " payton said .
bush was named an alternate to the nfc pro bowl team on tuesday .
prior to getting injured , bush was having a standout year .
through 14 games in the 2008 season , bush had 404 yards and two touchdowns on 106 carries , averaging 3.8 yards per run .
he also had 440 yards and four touchdowns receiving and had returned three punts for touchdowns .
" i had a long visit with him ( tuesday ) , " payton said .
" just disappointment in the way the season started. certainly it was encouraging .
as we monitor his touches and we look at how many times he gets the ball , be it in the running game and passing game , we 'll find that right balance . " .
saints pierre thomas to injured reserve and the rest of injury report .
january 5 , 2011 .
not a mere day ago , the new orleans saints placed their rookie running back sensation chris ivory on injured reserve ( ir ) thus ending his season as the team heads intpo the playoffs .
now the black and gold will have to go without yet another running back .
pierre thomas was officially placed on ir wednesday with an ankle injury meaning that the team will be without both of their leading backs for the duration of the season .
remaning on the team are reggie bush and julius jones .
on tuesday , the saints re - signed running back deshawn wynn who played a few games on special teams earlier in the season .
wednesday afternoon , the saints signed rookie joique bell from the philadelphia eagles practice squad .
before the season even began , the saints had lost running backs lynell hamilton and pj hill to injuries for the entire year .
some good news is that wide receiver marques colston returned to practice fully .
the rest of the injury report for wednesday is as follows .
did not practice .
s malcolm jenkins ( knee ) .
te jimmy graham ( ankle ) .
dt anthony hargrove ( knee ) .
lb danny clark ( hamstring ) .
limited .
te jeremy shockey ( groin ) .
te david thomas ( knee ) .
reggie bush 's season has come to an end .
the saints placed bush on the injured reserve list wednesday after he suffered a knee sprain in the team 's week 15 loss at chicago .
saints put bush on i.r .
new orleans signed cb michael lehan , who spent five games with the dolphins this season , to take the vacant roster spot .
bush played in 10 games , but had to sit out four straight after he underwent knee surgery to repair a torn meniscus in october .
he rushed 106 times for 404 yards and two touchdowns and also had 52 catches for 440 yards and four tds. he also had three punt returns for scores .
posted at 3 : 21 pm et , 01 / 5 / 2011 .
new orleans saints place pierre thomas on injured reserve list .
the new orleans saints have placed running back pierre thomas on the injured reserve list a day after their leading rusher , chris ivory , was shut down for the season .
with a playoff game looming saturday on what probably will be a wet field in a tough stadium in seattle , reggie bush and julius jones will step up to replace the saints' top two running backs .
"i don't know that this is a rallying cry , " coach sean payton said of the injuries ( via jeff duncan of the times - picayune ) .
"we've gone through this before .
it's not uncommon .
it's more the norm . " .
thomas had a setback with an ankle injury in practice last week and , payton said , everyone "felt this was the best move . " .
the saints signed deshawn wynn on tuesday and joique bell today off the philadelphia eagles' practice squad .
sports news in brief from around the world .
new orleans saints running back reggie bush has been placed on injured reserve and will miss the final two games of the regular season , the team said wednesday .
bush hurt his left knee against the carolina panthers on oct. 19 and , after missing four games during rehabilitation , has struggled to regain his form .
the saints ( 7-7 ) will visit the detroit lions ( 0-14 ) this sunday .
golf - u.s. masters champion trevor immelman has become the fourth south african to be awarded honorary life membership of the european tour , and the 32nd overall .
" i actually have goosebumps just thinking about this , " said the 29-year-old on the eve of the south african open in paarl .
" i started my professional career on the tour .
" to become an honorary life member ... is something extremely special i will cherish for the rest of my life , " added immelman who follows in the footsteps of compatriots gary player , ernie els and retief goosen .
pierre thomas placed on injured reserve .
jan 5 , 2011 -- 4 : 35 pm .
pierre thomas , the saints' leading rusher in 2009 , was put on injured reserve , the team announced wednesday .
thomas has an ankle injury , and he is the second running back in two days to be placed on ir as new orleans prepares for its wild - card round playoff game at seattle .
the saints placed rookie chris ivory on injured reserve tuesday - - another huge blow , because he was the club's leading rusher this season .
that leaves reggie bush , julius jones and the newly - signed joique bell , who was added off the eagles' practice squad when thomas was placed on ir , to carry the load in the saints' backfield .
the saints do not generally run the ball much anyway - - new orleans finished 30th in the nfl in rushing attempts this season , with 380 .
they do , however , use their running backs frequently out of the backfield in the short passing game , and thomas' absence will hurt there .
ivory , who had made strides with ball security , showed off his power this season , running through arm tackles and over lighter linebackers en route to 716 yards rushing .
thomas was hurt in the saints' game vs . atlanta game in september and missed 10 games , including last sunday's loss to the tampa bay buccaneers .
he had just 269 yards rushing .
new orleans has never used reggie bush as a feature - type back , but as more of a third - down , all - purpose running back .
it is likely he will get 10 to 12 carries on saturday .
the saints are not likely to expose him to more than that , not with the depth being in such critical shape .
there was good news for new orleans : wide receiver marques colston was a full participant in practice on wednesday .
he did not play last sunday after undergoing arthroscopic knee surgery last tuesday .
safety malcolm jenkins ( knee ) , tight end jimmy graham ( ankle ) , defensive tackle anthony hargrove ( knee ) and linebacker danny clark ( hamstring ) did not participate in team drills wednesday .
it is not certain what their status is for saturday .
tight end jeremy shockey ( groin ) and tight end david thomas ( knee ) were limited in wednesday's practice , which is encouraging because of graham's ankle injury .
a mafia boss in palermo hanged himself in jail after hours before he was arrested in a police 's raid .
vincent 'the chin' gigante dies in prison .
published : dec . 19 , 2005 at 9 : 44 pm .
vincent "the chin" gigante , the new york mob boss whose crazy act earned him the nickname "the oddfather , " died in prison monday .
he was 77 .
the former driver for late mafia boss vito genovese , gigante rose to the head of the crime family that bears genovese's name , newsday reported .
"he was the last of the old - school bosses , " said ex - nypd organized crime detective joe coffey monday .
bureau of prisons spokesman al quintero said gigante died early monday of apparent heart disease at the u . s . medical center for federal prisoners in springfield , mo .
it is the same prison where mobsters john gotti , anthony "fat tony" salerno and anthony "tony ducks" corallo also died , the newspaper said .
gigante was serving a 12 - year sentence for a racketeering conspiracy conviction in brooklyn in 1997 and was due to be released in june 2010 .
he became a legend for pretending he was mentally ill as a way of escaping prosecution .
gigante would wander around greenwich village in his bathrobe , mumbling to himself .
in april 2003 , gigante plead guilty to charges he feigned mental illness in the 1990s , adding three years to his sentence .
suspected key mafia boss vying for top costra nostra slot found hanging dead in palermo jail cell .
a key suspected mafia boss arrested tuesday in a sicilian police raid has been found dead , hanging in his pagliarelli prison cell in in palermo .
mob boss 'oddfather' dies in prison at 77 .
published : tuesday , dec . 20 2005 12 : 00 a . m . mst .
mob boss vincent "the chin" gigante , the powerful mafioso who avoided jail for decades by wandering the streets in a ratty bathrobe and slippers , feigning mental illness , died monday in prison .
he was 77 .
the head of the genovese crime family , who had suffered from heart disease , died at the federal prison in springfield , mo . , said prison spokesman al quintero .
it was the same place where rival mob boss john gotti died of cancer in 2002 at age 61 .
gigante's death also was confirmed by christine monaco , a spokeswoman for the fbi , the organization that worked for years to put him behind bars .
dubbed the "oddfather" for his bizarre behavior , gigante had scored a lengthy string of victories over prosecutors , but it ended with a july 1997 racketeering conviction .
he was sentenced to 12 years in prison .
an alleged mafia boss who was caught on wiretaps purportedly discussing cosa nostra 's new hierarchy hanged himself in a sicilian jail hours after his arrest , police said wednesday .
a suspected mafia boss arrested in a high-profile police raid has been found dead in his cell , italian police sources have said .
gaetano lo presti , who had been previously convicted of mob-related crimes before his re-arrest on tuesday , was found dead in pagliarelli prison in the sicilian capital of palermo .
police said lo presti had hanged himself late on tuesday night .
gaetano lo presti , one of 99 alleged sicilian mafia members seized on tuesday , has apparently hanged himself with his belt in prison .
lo presti , 52 , head of mafia clans in the porta nuova area of palermo , was found dead in pagliarelli prison only hours after his arrest .
vincent gigante , mafia leader who feigned insanity , dies at 77 .
published : december 19 , 2005 .
vincent gigante , who feigned mental illness for decades to camouflage his position as one of the nation's most influential and dangerous mafia leaders , died today in federal prison in springfield , mo . , officials told the associated press .
he was 77 .
mr . gigante died while serving a 12 - year sentence imposed in 1997 after he was convicted of racketeering and conspiring to kill other mobsters .
officials at the prison medical center where he died did not provide the cause of death but noted that he suffered from heart disease .
mr . gigante , whose nickname was "chin , " painstakingly maintained the fiction that he was incompetent until april 2003 , when he appeared before judge i . leo glasser in federal district court in brooklyn and pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice .
specifically , he acknowledged running a con on the legal system that delayed his racketeering trial from 1990 to 1997 while his sanity was being examined .
as part of the plea , three more years were added to his prison term , but he avoided a lengthy trial on the other charges , which amounted to an accusation - long denied or sidestepped by mr . gigante - that he headed the genovese organized crime family .
his lawyer , benjamin brafman , offered the explanation that "i think you get to a point in life - i think everyone does - where you become too old and too sick and too tired to fight . " .
for mr . gigante , the guise that he adopted in the mid - 1960's - behavior that won him the nickname oddfather - took considerable effort to maintain .
he could often be seen shuffling around his greenwich village neighborhood in pajamas , bathrobe and slippers , mumbling to himself and appearing to be a disturbed but harmless person .
law - enforcement agents , prosecutors and mafia defectors described his behavior as a staged performance calculated to evade prosecution for his activities as head of a crime family that under his leadership became the wealthiest and most powerful in the nation .
based on information from informers and electronic eavesdropping on gangsters , f . b . i . and new york city law - enforcement officials ranked mr . gigante as the pre - eminent mafia leader in the early and mid - 1990's , and prosecutors identified him as the dominant force in the early 1990's inside the commission , the mafia's ruling body , which resolves significant disputes among the five major families in the new york region .
his reach , law - enforcement officials said , extended as well to philadelphia and new england , where he exercised veto power over the appointments of mob bosses in those areas .
salvatore gravano , the no . 2 figure in the gambino crime family before he defected in 1991 , testified that even mr . gigante's archrival , john gotti , grudgingly acknowledged mr . gigante's craftiness .
"he's crazy like a fox , " mr . gravano quoted mr . gotti as saying of mr . gigante after a summit meeting of new york city mob leaders in 1988 .
mr . gotti was the boss of the gambino family until his own imprisonment forced him to relinquish undisputed control in the late 1990's .
he , too , died in a prison hospital , of cancer in june 2002 .
federal bureau of investigation agents and federal and state prosecutors regarded mr . gigante as the most elusive mafia leader of his era and the most difficult to bring to trial .
"he was probably the most clever organized - crime figure i have ever seen , " said john s . pritchard 3rd , a former f . b . i . supervisor , who led a squad that investigated the genovese family in the 1980's .
disputing the government's contentions , mr . gigante's lawyers and relatives maintained that he had been mentally disabled since the late 1960's , with a below - normal i . q . of 69 to 72 .
his defenders steadfastly denied that he was associated with the mafia , asserting that it was ludicrous to believe that someone so mentally subpar was capable of heading a major crime organization .
the rev . louis gigante , a roman catholic priest , former new york city councilman and a builder of low - income housing in the bronx , characterized the relentless investigations of his older brother as persecution by agents and prosecutors who were biased against italian - americans .
organized - crime experts and mob turncoats said that mr . gigante was apparently willing to humiliate himself publicly as the price for escaping the long prison sentences that were being meted out to other mafia leaders .
according to federal and state investigators , each of the family's 200 "made" or inducted soldiers and about 1 , 000 associates - the name for others who voluntarily cooperate in illegal activities but who are not sworn members - were obligated to funnel part of their loot to mr . gigante , as much as $100 million a year in the early 1990's .
the family's fortune , the experts said , flowed largely from a vast network of bookmaking and loansharking rings and from extortions of construction companies in the new york city area seeking labor peace or sweetheart contracts from carpenters , teamsters and laborers' unions that were dominated by mr . gigante's lieutenants .
mob deserters in the mid - 1990's testified in criminal and civil cases that the genovese gang's other lucrative enterprises included the control of cartels that rigged bids and inflated prices in the private garbage - hauling industries of new york city and westchester county ; kickbacks from shipping and trucking companies on the new jersey waterfront in exchange for labor peace ; protection payoffs from merchants at the fulton fish market ; and the control of many union jobs at the jacob k . javits convention center in manhattan .
mr . gigante's influence even extended over the san gennaro street festival in little italy until a 1995 crackdown by new york city officials and federal prosecutors resulted in allegations that the genovese family operated gambling games at the festival , extorted payoffs from venders and pocketed thousands of dollars donated to a neighborhood church .
in the 1980's , after the authorities said mr . gigante had assumed undisputed command of the genovese family , he conducted his activities in a starkly unorthodox fashion for a mafia leader .
most days , in the early evening , mr . gigante , a hulking man who was about six feet tall and weighed 200 pounds , would emerge from his mother's walkup apartment building on sullivan street in greenwich village .
sometimes dressed in a bathrobe and pajamas and sometimes wearing a windbreaker and shabby trousers and always accompanied by one or two bodyguards , he gingerly crossed the street to the triangle civic improvement association , a dingy storefront club that served as his headquarters .
inside , he played pinochle and held whispered conversations with men who agents said were his trusted confederates .
after midnight , according to f . b . i . surveillance reports , he would be driven to a townhouse near park avenue at east 77th street , that was owned by olympia esposito , who was characterized by mr . gigante's lawyers as his common - law wife and the mother of three of his eight children , vincent , lucia and carmella esposito .
f . b . i . agents , who in 1986 observed the townhouse from a nearby rooftop post , said that soon after arriving , mr . gigante would change into more elegant clothes , carry on conversations with associates , and read or watch television before retiring .
about 9 or 10 the next morning , he would reappear in his shabby downtown clothes and be driven back to sullivan street or a nearby apartment occupied by his relatives at 505 laguardia place .
"it was hard to understand what enjoyment he got out of being a mob boss , " said ronald goldstock , the former director of the new york state organized crime task force .
"his only pleasure appeared to be the pure power he exercised . " .
vincent gigante ( pronounced ji - gant - tee ) was born on march 29 , 1928 , in new york city and grew up on the same streets in greenwich village where he would spend most of his adult life .
he was one of five sons of salvatore gigante , a watchmaker , and yolanda gigante , a seamstress , both of whom had immigrated from naples .
his mother usually addressed him as "cincenzo , " a diminutive of vincente , and his boyhood friends shortened that into his lifelong nickname , "chin . " .
a lackadaisical student , mr . gigante graduated from p . s . 3 , an elementary school in greenwich village and dropped out of textile high school in manhattan in the ninth grade .
police detectives said that as a teen - ager , he became a protg of vito genovese , who was a potent mafia leader in the united states and in italy from the 1930's to the 1960's and whose name still describes the organized - crime group he headed until his death in 1969 .
the gang was founded in the 1930's by one of the nation's most notorious criminals , charles ( lucky ) luciano , who was deported to italy and who died in 1962 .
mr . genovese is believed to have endeared himself to the gigantes when vincent was a boy with a loan to pay for surgery needed by mrs . gigante .
between age 17 and 25 , mr . gigante was arrested seven times on an array of charges : receiving stolen goods , possession of an unlicensed handgun , auto theft , arson and bookmaking .
most were dismissed or resolved by fines .
his only jail sentence in that period was 60 days for a gambling conviction .
when arrested in his early 20's , he listed his occupation as a tailor .
but as a strapping youth with quick fists , he was better known as a prize fighter .
mr . gigante , from age 16 to 19 , fought as a light heavyweight in clubs around town , winning 21 of 25 light - heavyweight bouts , according to nat fleischer's ring record book .
club boxers in those days fought four - and six - round contests in neighborhood arenas , usually getting a percentage of the tickets they themselves sold .
one of mr . gigante's managers was a greenwich village neighbor , thomas ( tommy ryan ) eboli , who later became the boss of the genovese family .
former new york city detectives who were assigned to organized - crime intelligence units said that mr . gigante earned his mafia spurs as an enforcer in the 1950's .
but his prominence in the underworld surged in 1957 , when mr . genovese wrested control of a mob family from frank costello , who had been a close friend of lucky luciano and meyer lansky and was one of the best - known underworld figures in america .
mr . costello retired abruptly as a boss after a gunman grazed his scalp with a bullet in the vestibule of his apartment building on central park west .
a doorman identified the 29 - year - old mr . gigante as the shooter , but mr . costello testified that he was unable to recognize his assailant and mr . gigante was acquitted in 1958 on charges of attempted murder .
a year later , he was convicted with mr . genovese in manhattan on federal charges of heroin trafficking .
mr . gigante , who listed his profession as the superintendent of a tenement on bleecker street , was sentenced to seven years in prison .
the sentencing judge said he would have imposed a longer sentence but was swayed by a flood of letters from residents of greenwich village and little italy attesting to mr . gigante's good character and his work on behalf of juveniles .
he was paroled after five years and detectives said that soon afterward he was promoted from soldier to the rank of capo , or captain , overseeing a group of mafia gangsters known as a crew , in greenwich village .
although his headquarters was in lower manhattan and he spent his nights farther uptown , mr . gigante had a home in old tappan , n . j . , where he lived with his wife , the former olympia grippa , and their three daughters and two sons .
they are yolanda fyfe , roseanne d'cola and rita gigante , and salvatore and andrew .
in 1969 , he was indicted in new jersey on a charge of conspiracy to bribe the entire five - member old tappan police force to alert him to surveillance operations by law enforcement agencies .
the accusation was dropped after mr . gigante's lawyers presented reports from psychiatrists that he was mentally unfit to stand trial .
mafia informers and defectors said that mr . gigante gained control of the genovese family in a peaceful transition in the early 1980's when the group's acting boss , philip lombardo , stepped down because of ill health , and mr . gigante's main rival , anthony salerno , was imprisoned for life on racketeering charges .
mr . salerno died in federal prison in 1992 .
as a new godfather , mr . gigante quickly imposed extraordinary security measures .
genovese soldiers and associates were forbidden to utter his name or nickname in conversations or telephone calls .
when references to him had to be made , capos and soldiers would silently point to their chins or form the letter "c" with their fingers .
mr . gigante was indicted in 1990 with 14 others on federal charges in brooklyn that they had conspired to rig bids and extort payoffs from contractors on multimillion - dollar contracts with the new york city housing authority to install windows .
at his arraignment , he appeared in court in his familiar pajamas and bathrobe and a peaked cap .
because of defense contentions that he was mentally and physically impaired , his case was severed from the other defendants and legal battles ensued for seven years over his competence to stand trial .
a superseding indictment in 1993 brought more serious accusations against him .
mr . gigante was charged with being the head of the genovese family and sanctioning the murders of six mobsters and conspiring to kill three others , including john gotti , the boss of the gambino family .
mr . gigante , the indictment asserted , wanted mr . gotti eliminated because he had violated mafia protocol by arranging the assassination of the previous gambino boss , paul castellano , without seeking mr . gigante's approval .
the evidence in both indictments stemmed mainly from deserters from the genovese and other mob families who entered the government's witness protection program .
at sanity hearings in march 1996 , mr . gravano of the gambino family , and alphonse d'arco , the former acting boss of another new york mafia organization , the lucchese crime family , testified that mr . gigante was lucid during top - level mafia meetings and that he had acknowledged to other gangsters that his eccentric behavior was a pretense .
mr . gigante's lawyers elicited testimony and reports from psychiatrists and psychologists that from 1969 to 1995 , he had been confined 28 times in hospitals for treatment of hallucinations and that he suffered from "dementia rooted in organic brain damage . " .
in august 1996 , judge eugene h . nickerson of federal district court in brooklyn ruled that mr . gigante was mentally competent to stand trial on murder and racketeering charges .
the judge found that at least until 1991 , mr . gigante had engaged in an "elaborate deception" with the help of his relatives to deceive psychiatrists about his condition .
before the trial began , mr . gigante , who had open - heart surgery in 1988 , had another cardiac operation in december 1996 , putting his fitness to stand trial in doubt once again .
mr . gigante had pleaded not guilty and had been free for years on $1 million bond .
during the monthlong trial in 1997 , a gaunt - looking mr . gigante sat in a wheelchair , looking blankly into space as witnesses testified and lawyers argued .
he did not testify .
after three days of deliberations , the jury on july 25 , 1997 , convicted him on charges of running multimillion - dollar rackets as the genovese family chief and of conspiring unsuccessfully in the late 1980's to murder mr . gotti and a genovese family defector .
but he was acquitted of ordering three other gangland slayings and the jury was deadlocked on accusations that he ordered four other murders .
imposing a sentence of 12 years - instead of a possible maximum of 27 years - and a $1 . 25 million fine , judge jack b . weinstein of federal district court in brooklyn reflected in december 1997 on mr . gigante's career .
"he is a shadow of his former self , " the judge said , "an old man finally brought to bay in his declining years after decades of vicious criminal tyranny . " .
one of the key suspected mafia bosses arrested yesterday in one of sicily 's biggest police operations has hanged himself in his prison cell , police said .
gaetano lo presti , the " godfather " of the palermo district of porta nuova , was found dead late last night in pagliarelli prison in the sicilian capital of palermo .
posted 12 / 19 / 2005 3 : 36 pm .
vincent 'the chin' gigante , last of mafia giants , dies .
mob boss vincent "the chin" gigante , the powerful mafioso who avoided jail for decades by wandering the streets in a ratty bathrobe and slippers , feigning mental illness , died monday in prison .
he was 77 .
the head of the genovese crime family , who had suffered from heart disease , died at the federal prison in springfield , mo . , said prison spokesman al quintero .
it was the same place where rival mob boss john gotti died of cancer in 2002 at age 61 .
gigante's death also was confirmed by christine monaco , a spokeswoman for the fbi , the organization that worked for years to put him behind bars .
dubbed the "oddfather" for his bizarre behavior , gigante had scored a lengthy string of victories over prosecutors , but it ended with a july 1997 racketeering conviction .
he was sentenced to 12 years in prison .
after a quarter - century of public craziness , he finally admitted his insanity ruse at an april 2003 federal hearing in which he calmly pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice .
that brought him another three - year sentence .
at that hearing , he chatted amiably with his son , shook hands with defense lawyers and said "god bless you" to u . s . district judge i . leo glasser .
for the man described by the new york times magazine as "the last great mafioso of the century , " his admission was the final act in a 50 - year career linking the era of old - time gangsters and the modern - day mafia of gotti .
at the height of his power , gigante's empire stretched from little italy to the docks of miami .
mob experts called him a traditional boss who settled issues by whatever means - verbal or violent - were required .
denying he was a gangster , gigante would wander the streets of the greenwich village neighborhood in nightclothes , muttering incoherently .
relatives , including a brother was who a roman catholic priest , insisted gigante suffered from paranoid schizophrenia , dementia and alzheimer's disease .
authorities charged it was a brazen act to avoid the law - although it wasn't until 1997 that a jury agreed .
the trial was a spectacle , with gigante in a wheelchair , mumbling silently , seemingly oblivious to the proceedings .
his lawyers claimed they could not communicate with him in any "meaningful way . " .
none of that swayed jurors , who convicted gigante of racketeering , extortion and plotting the murder - never carried out - of ex - mob associate peter savino .
born in the bronx in 1928 , one of five sons of italian immigrant parents , gigante became a small - time boxer and drifted into the crime family founded in 1931 by legendary gangster charles "lucky" luciano .
in 1957 , gigante was the hitman in a botched attempt to assassinate then - boss frank costello .
after refusing to name his attacker in court , the shaken costello retired , making gigante's patron , vito genovese , kingpin of the family that still bears his name .
over time , gigante , a stocky figure with a pugilist's face and 1940s pompadour , proved better at beating the law than gotti , the so - called "teflon don" who won two acquittals before tapes and turncoats sent him to prison for life .
before 1997 , gigante had served only a five - year heroin rap in 1959 .
an alleged mafia boss who was arrested in a massive sweep by italian police hanged himself in a prison cell within hours of being detained .
police have launched an investigation into how gaetano lo presti was able to commit suicide .
he was found dead in a cell in palermo 's pagliarelli prison late on tuesday night , just hours after being picked up during raids by 1,200 police backed up by helicopters and sniffer dogs .
ex - mafia boss vincent gigante dies in prison .
he was known as the 'oddfather' for faking mental illness to beat raps .
updated 12 / 19 / 2005 2 : 48 : 40 pm et .
mob boss vincent "the chin" gigante , the powerful mafioso who avoided jail for decades by wandering the streets in a ratty bathrobe and slippers , feigning mental illness , died monday in prison , officials said .
he was 77 .
gigante , who had suffered from heart disease , died at the federal prison in springfield , mo . , said prison spokesman al quintero .
gigante , head of the genovese crime family , had scored a lengthy string of victories over prosecutors , but it ended with a july 1997 racketeering conviction .
after nearly a quarter - century of public craziness , he finally admitted his insanity ruse at an april 2003 federal hearing in which the man dubbed the "oddfather" by tabloid newspapers calmly pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice .
at the height of his power , gigante's empire stretched from little italy to the docks of miami .
denying he was a gangster , gigante would wander the streets of the greenwich village neighborhood in nightclothes , muttering incoherently .
relatives , including a brother was who a roman catholic priest , insisted gigante suffered from paranoid schizophrenia , dementia and alzheimer's disease .
authorities charged it was a brazen act to avoid the law - although it wasn't until 1997 that a jury agreed , and it took another six years for gigante to concede his subterfuge .
born in the bronx in 1928 , one of five sons of italian immigrant parents , gigante became a small - time boxer and drifted into the crime family founded in 1931 by legendary gangster charles "lucky" luciano .
in 1957 , gigante was the hitman in a botched attempt to assassinate then - boss frank costello .
after refusing to name his attacker in court , the shaken costello retired , making gigante's patron , vito genovese , kingpin of the family that still bears his name .
over time , gigante proved better at beating the law than john gotti , the so - called "teflon don" who won two acquittals before tapes and turncoats sent him to prison for life .
gotti died in 2002 at age 61 .
before 1997 , gigante had served only a five - year heroin rap in 1959 .
the alleged mafia boss of a palermo neighborhood hanged himself in jail , hours after he was arrested in a blitz against cosa nostra , police in sicily said wednesday .
carabinieri paramilitary police in palermo said gaetano lo presti , 52 , hanged himself in his cell in a palermo jail tuesday evening , hours after he was arrested in the raid .
last updated : tuesday , 20 december 2005 , 10 : 39 gmt .
us mafia godfather gigante dies .
one of the most famous mafia godfathers in the us , vincent "the chin" gigante , who spent much of his life avoiding prison , has died in jail , aged 77 .
he was , according to the new york times , the last great mafioso of the 20th century .
for years , gigante evaded prison by concocting an elaborate mental illness .
he routinely wandered the streets of new york's manhattan , shuffling along in slippers and a tattered bathrobe , muttering incoherently .
this bizarre behaviour earned him the title "the oddfather" , but also helped to keep him out of jail , as a series of juries were convinced that gigante was indeed insane .
but in 1997 , he was finally convicted of racketeering , and in april 2003 he admitted to a court that his behaviour had been a ruse to stay out of prison .
heart disease .
he died in a medical prison in springfield , missouri , on monday morning , said a spokesman for the facility .
the cause of his death was unknown , although he had had heart disease , the spokesman said .
his death was confirmed by the fbi , whose agents worked for decades to bring him to justice .
he was born in the bronx in 1928 to italian immigrants , and given the nickname "chin" - short for vincenzo .
the ex - boxer became part of the powerful genovese mafia family , eventually winning the patronage of ambitious mobster vito genovese .
gigante carried out an attempted hit on the boss of the family , frank costello , in 1957 .
the frightened costello refused to name his attacker in court , and left genovese to take over the mob .
mumbling quietly .
when the fbi closed in on gigante , he feigned mental illness to escape conviction for police - bribery in 1970 .
from then on , his act became more elaborate .
federal agents once found him standing naked in a shower , holding an umbrella .
relatives - even including his brother , a roman catholic priest - insisted he suffered from paranoid schizophrenia , dementia and alzheimer's disease .
at his trial in 1997 , for conspiracy to murder other organised crime figures , racketeering , and extortion , he sat in a wheelchair , mumbling quietly , apparently unaware of what was going on .
it took the testimony of six turncoat mobsters , and fbi tape recordings in which the so - called oddfather was heard conversing in a perfectly normal way , to convince the jury of his guilt .
he was jailed for 12 years , but it took until 2003 for the chin to admit his sham .
a suspected mafia leader has hanged himself in prison in sicily hours after being arrested , italian police say .
police said lo presti , alleged boss of a sicilian mafia clan in a district of palermo , hanged himself in his cell .
vincent 'the chin' gigante died while in prison custody on december 19 , 2005 .
a suspected mafia boss arrested tuesday in a high-profile police swoop has hanged himself in his prison cell , police sources said wednesday .
gaetano lo presti , who was already convicted of mob-related crimes prior to his latest arrest , was found dead late last night in pagliarelli prison in the sicilian capital of palermo .
vincent 'chin' gigante , 77 , crime boss .
december 20 , 2005 .
vincent gigante , who died yesterday in federal prison at 77 , was the genovese crime family boss who for three decades feigned lunacy to evade prosecution for crimes ranging from loan sharking to murder to bribing the entire police force of old tappan , n . j .
he was known as "chin , " and his moniker was often invoked by denizens of the mafia underworld with a hand - to - chin gesture rather than a word , the better to foil police bugs .
to the writers of headlines he was sometimes "daffy don" or "the oddfather" for his habit of walking the streets of the west village clad in a bathrobe , striped pyjamas , and slippers , while muttering incoherently .
federal prosecutors claimed it was an act , but it was not until 2003 , after more than three decades of faking mental illness , that gigante admitted in court that he did it to avoid prosecution .
his admission came as part of a plea deal on behalf of his son , andrew , also convicted of mob - related activities .
for two decades , gigante was head of the genovese crime family , which emerged as the largest of the five new york mafia clans after decades of concerted federal prosecutions decimated its rivals .
it was estimated that there were some 300 members of the family under his control .
the genovese rackets included guaranteeing labor peace to firms in construction , garbage removal , and trucking ; extorting payoffs from companies doing business at the ports of newark and elizabeth ; various rackets at the fulton fish market and the jacob k . javits convention center ; contracts for window - installation in city housing , and the old standbys of bookmaking , loan - sharking , and narcotics .
it was narcotics that first sent gigante to prison , in 1959 , when he received a five - year sentence after being caught conspiring to smuggle heroin from abroad .
also sentenced in the case was the man who gave his name to the crime family , vito genovese .
genovese ran his organization from behind bars while serving a 15 - year sentence .
it was a similar ruse - maintaining control of the family while incarcerated by transmitting orders through his son , andrew - that was gigante's downfall .
gigante was born in the bronx to parents who were immigrants from naples , italy .
his father was a jewelry engraver , and his mother was a seamstress .
born vincenzo , he was called "chin" for short , and his prominent chin probably helped the name stick .
he put it to good use as a teenage boxer , winning 21 of 25 club fights .
gigante was arrested several times from when he was 17 to 25 , for possession of an unlicensed handgun , gambling , bookmaking , grand larceny , and arson .
two of his brothers , mario and ralph , were also identified as mafia soldiers , while another , louis , was a prominent catholic priest as well as a democratic politician in the bronx .
in 1957 gigante was charged with attempted murder in the shooting of frank costello , then the head of what would be called the genovese family .
he was acquitted despite the testimony of a doorman who claimed to have witnessed the crime ; costello himself claimed not to have seen his assailant , despite being shot at close range from the front .
the shot had only "creased his head , " according to reports at the time .
the prosecutor in the costello case claimed that gigante was "a young punk on the way up in the underworld who was chosen to kill costello to win his spurs . " .
if so , it seemed to have worked , despite his having missed .
costello retired soon after , and genovese assumed control of the family , which had a history going back to lucky luciano .
after serving five years on the 1959 heroin conviction , gigante resumed his life of crime .
he first sought psychiatric help in 1966 , while under investigation for bribing new york city police .
in 1970 , he was indicted for bribing the entire five - man police force of old tappan , n . j . , a small town in bergen county where he had moved .
after he produced evidence that he was under psychiatric care at st . vincent's hospital in westchester , the court ruled that he was mentally incompetent to testify in the case .
it was a pattern gigante would repeat in the coming decades , including committing himself several times when prosecutions threatened .
gigante's immediate family supported him , especially louis , the glad - handing , cigar - smoking priest and builder of low - income housing , who told reporters his brother had paranoid schizophrenia , dementia , and alzheimer's disease .
federal marshals serving him with a subpoena at his mother's sullivan street apartment house once found him standing under the shower , fully clothed , holding an umbrella .
"vincenzo ?
he is the boss of the toilet ! " .
his mother told new york post columnist cindy adams .
gigante , meantime , was consolidating his power within the genovese family .
in the late 1970s , he ran a crew in lower manhattan , operating waterfront rackets , as well as loan - sharking and gambling in new jersey .
he emerged as head of the genovese family by the early 1980s .
federal prosecutors kept him under observation for decades , and gigante kept up the crazy act with amazing consistency .
he spent much of each day walking around the village in his bed clothes and playing cards at his triangle civic improvement association on mulberry street .
a sign hung on the wall warning business associates against loose talk : "this place is bugged . " .
by the late 1980s , he rarely went to old tappan , preferring to spend his nights on the upper east side with his mistress , with whom he had three children .
oddly , both his wife and his mistress were named olympia .
gigante's mental illness act allowed him to escape trial despite being indicted numerous times on charges ranging from bid rigging and extortion to conspiracy to commit eight murders .
his luck held until 1997 , when a new york jury found him guilty of a range of charges and sentenced him to 12 years in the federal penitentiary .
it may have been a bad omen that the judge in the case , jack b . weinstein , insisted that gigante wear a suit rather than a bathrobe to his trial .
at the palma boys social club in east harlem in 1985 , the fbi taped the following exchange between two genovese family members , anthony "fat tony" salerno and giuseppe sabato .
salerno : he's got to worry if he gets pinched , all them years he spent in that [ expletive deleted ] asylum .
sabato : that's what i'm saying .
salerno : for nothing .
vincent l . gigante .
born march 29 , 1928 , in the bronx ; died december 19 at the u . s . medical center for federal prisoners in springfield , mo . ; the cause of death was not announced , but he had recently suffered heart problems .
one of the mafia bosses and clan members arrested in a major police crackdown has hung himself in his prison cell in palermo .
his suicide appeared to be related to clan feuds .
gaetano lo presti , 52 , who had taken over control of mafia clans in the porta nuova area of palermo and had previous convictions , was found dead in pagliarelli prison , police said today .
ny mob don vincent 'chin' gigante dies in prison .
december 19 , 2005 .
convicted mobster vincent "chin" gigante , famed for wandering the streets of new york in a tattered bathrobe in a show of insanity , died on monday in federal prison , officials said .
considered one of the last of new york's old - time mafia dons , the reputed head of the genovese family was serving a 12 - year sentence at the u . s . medical center for federal prisoners in springfield , missouri .
he was 77 .
gigante was also nicknamed "the oddfather" and "the pajama king" - references to his habit of shuffling along the sidewalk in manhattan's greenwich village muttering to himself , looking disheveled and unshaven in a robe and slippers .
his attorneys argued that gigante was mentally ill and incapable of running a crime family ; prosecutors argued he was feigning illness to avoid prosecution .
eventually , a jury found gigante guilty in 1997 of conspiracy to murder other organized crime figures , racketeering , extortion and other charges .
the case relied heavily on the testimony of six former mobsters who became government informants , including salvatore "sammy the bull" gravano , whose testimony was critical in the 1992 conviction of the late mobster john gotti .
following gigante's conviction , prosecutors said he continued to run the crime family from prison .
in 2003 , he pleaded guilty to obstructing justice by misleading doctors about his mental state .
the cause of death was unknown , but gigante had been suffering from heart disease , said prison spokesman al quintero .
a suspected mafia leader committed suicide overnight after being arrested in a major police sweep , police in palermo , sicily , said on wednesday .
he may have been driven to suicide because wiretapped conversations between him and other mafia bosses helped lead to the police sweep on tuesday in which 89 people were arrested following a nine-month probe , the ansa news agency reported .
vincent 'the chin' gigante dies in prison .
edited on mon dec - 19 - 05 03 : 49 pm .
mob boss vincent "the chin" gigante , the powerful mafioso who avoided jail for decades by wandering the streets in a ratty bathrobe and slippers , feigning mental illness , died monday in prison .
he was 77 .
the head of the genovese crime family , who had suffered from heart disease , died at the federal prison in springfield , mo . , said prison spokesman al quintero .
it was the same place where rival mob boss john gotti died of cancer in 2002 at age 61 .
gigante's death also was confirmed by christine monaco , a spokeswoman for the fbi , the organization that worked for years to put him behind bars .
dubbed the "oddfather" for his bizarre behavior , gigante had scored a lengthy string of victories over prosecutors , but it ended with a july 1997 racketeering conviction .
he was sentenced to 12 years in prison .
after a quarter - century of public craziness , he finally admitted his insanity ruse at an april 2003 federal hearing in which he calmly pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice .
that brought him another three - year sentence .
. . .
for the man described by the new york times magazine as "the last great mafioso of the century , " his admission was the final act in a 50 - year career linking the era of old - time gangsters and the modern - day mafia of gotti .
a mafioso committed suicide hours after his arrest in a police bust of almost 100 people suspected of trying to re-establish cosa nostra provincial 'commission ' .
gaetano lo presti , 52 , hung himself in his cell on tuesday evening after he is believed to have read police wiretap transcripts implicating him in the affair .
mafia 'oddfather , ' vincent 'chin' gigante , dies in u . s . prison at 77 .
tuesday , december 20 , 2005 .
vincent "the chin" gigante , the powerful mob boss who avoided jail for decades by wandering the greenwich village streets in a ratty bathrobe and slippers as part of an elaborate feigned mental illness , died monday in prison , federal officials said .
he was 77 .
gigante died at the u . s . medical center for federal prisoners in springfield , mo . , said prison spokesman al quintero .
the cause of death was not immediately known , but quintero said gigante had a history of heart disease .
dubbed the "oddfather" for his bizarre behavior , the former genovese crime family head , an ex - boxer whose lengthy string of victories over prosecutors ended with a july 1997 racketeering conviction , finally admitted his insanity ruse at an april 2003 court hearing .
after nearly a quarter - century of public craziness , gigante calmly pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice for his deception .
he then chatted amiably with his son , shook hands with defense lawyers and even laughed at one point .
"god bless you , " he told the judge , offering a broad wave goodbye before leaving the brooklyn courtroom .
gigante was jailed in the medical ward at the federal prison in springfield - the same facility where rival mob boss john gotti died .
denying he was a gangster , gigante would wander the streets of his native greenwich village in nightclothes , muttering incoherently .
relatives , including a brother was who a roman catholic priest , insisted gigante suffered from paranoid schizophrenia , dementia and alzheimer's disease .
authorities charged it was a brazen act to avoid the law - although it wasn't until 1997 that a jury agreed , and it took another six years for gigante to concede his subterfuge .
at the height of his power , gigante's empire stretched from the booths at little italy's san gennaro festival to the docks of miami .
"the looney tunes act served gigante well - it kept him out of prison for 30 years - but in the end he was the victim of his own crazy act .
he never had a chance to enjoy the fruits of his plunder , and he told some people that if given the chance , he wouldn't do it that way again , " said jerry capeci , a mafia expert and author of six books on organized crime .
for the man described by the new york times magazine as "the last great mafioso of the century , " his admission was the final act in a 50 - year career spanning the era of the old - time , publicity - shy "mustache petes" and the modern - day mafia of the swaggering gotti .
gigante looked the part , a stocky figure with a pugilist's face and 1940s brylcreem pompadour .
mob experts called him a traditional boss , trusted by others , who settled issues by whatever means - verbal or violent - were required .
his fall from power was sealed in a brooklyn courtroom where a parade of six turncoat mobsters , led by ex - gotti underboss salvatore "sammy the bull" gravano , described "chin's" power in the genovese clan and the "commission , " organized crime's ruling directorate .
the trial was a spectacle , with gigante in a wheelchair , mumbling silently , seemingly oblivious to the proceedings .
his lawyers claimed they could not communicate in any "meaningful way" with a client who didn't know where he was , or why .
at one point the trial turned into a "battle of the wheelchairs , " with testimony from peter chiodo , a 300 - plus - pound mobster who had survived a ganglaand execution only because his fat stopped a dozen bullets .
none of that swayed jurors , who convicted gigante of racketeering , extortion and plotting the murder - never carried out - of ex - mob associate peter savino .
"defendant has been consistently feigning insanity for many years and is still doing so in a shrewd attempt to avoid punishment for his crimes , " u . s . district judge jack b . weinstein said in sentencing gigante to 12 years in prison .
"he is a shadow of his former self - an old man finally brought to bay in his declining years after decades of vicious criminal tyranny . " .
the verdict was a major blow to a mafia already reeling from defections and convictions under the federal racketeering statute .
although gigante allegedly ran the family from prison , the genovese clan joined the city's four other mob families in disarray after he was jailed .
lawyer michael marinaccio , who led gigante's defense team , said monday that "putting aside the mental stuff , " gigante had suffered from "a multitude of medical issues relating to the heart , " and had undergone open heart surgery twice , in 1988 and 1996 .
recently when he complained of breathing difficulties , his family obtained a court order to have him treated at a hospital outside the prison until about two weeks ago , marinaccio said in a telephone interview .
"vincent was very frail , and i have to say the prison medical care was substandard , no matter where he was , " marinaccio said .
"the family is very close , they made regular visits , and i feel especially bad for them , " he added .
born in the bronx in 1928 , one of five sons of italian immigrant parents , gigante was nicknamed "chin" - short for "vincenzo" - by his mother .
he became a small - time boxer and drifted into the crime family founded in 1931 by legendary gangster charles "lucky" luciano .
in 1957 , gigante was the hitman in a botched attempt to assassinate then - boss frank costello .
after refusing to name his attacker in court , the shaken costello retired , making gigante's patron , vito genovese , kingpin of the family that still bears his name .
over time , gigante proved better at beating the law than gotti , the so - called "teflon don" who won two acquittals before tapes and turncoats sent him to prison for life .
prior to 1997 , gigante had served only a five - year heroin rap in 1959 .
as boss , gigante's watchword was secrecy .
a sign at his headquarters warned , "don't talk .
this place is bugged . " .
he held commission meetings in his mother's apartment house .
fellow mobsters , ordered never to say his name in public , referred to him by stroking their chins .
he also turned his claim of mental illness - first used to escape trial in a 1970 police - bribery case - into a full - time strategy , behaving weirdly in public , checking into psychiatric treatment clinics whenever the fbi turned up the heat .
there were comic - opera moments : once , agents serving a subpoena found gigante standing naked in the shower , holding an umbrella .
another time , upon spotting agents watching him , he fell to the sidewalk and prayed .
such maneuvers paid off .
in 1985 a federal crackdown on the commission indicted 12 top hoodlums - but not gigante , who some experts said was the actual leader .
yet even "chin's" ruses were not always airtight ; some mob cronies slipped up , and the fbi eventually obtained tapes of gigante acting normally in private .
later , prison psychologists also said he appeared rational at times .
gigante had eight children by his wife and a mistress , both named olympia .
relatives , led by rev . louis gigante , his priest - brother and most ardent defender , filled three rows at the 1997 trial .
louis gigante was in court when his brother finally admitted to faking his illness .
microsoft releases critical patch for ie zero day flaw .
microsoft ( nsdq : msft ) issued an out-of-band emergency patch wednesday for a zero-day internet explorer vulnerability that has opened the door for hackers to install malware on susceptible computers without any user intervention .
the flaw , which is given the highest severity rating of critical , affects all versions of microsoft 's ie web browser .
specifically , microsoft 's ie update affects versions of windows 2000 for ie 5.01 : xp , xp professional , server 2003 for ie 6 ; and xp , server 2003 , vista , server 2008 for ie 7 .
the vulnerability was reported after the release of windows ie 8 beta 2 , but microsoft still recommends in its advisory that users apply the patch .
the ie security problem is the result of a fundamental flaw in the browser 's data binding function , which ultimately leaves a hole in the memory space that can be accessed by remote hackers .
internet explorer can then quit unexpectedly while in an exploitable state .
unlike other exploits , users have only to visit a malicious site infused with trojans or other malware in order to become infected .
hackers can also entice victims to visit a specially crafted site , usually via some kind of phishing or social engineering scheme , or place infected banner ads on legitimate web sites .
once users open an infected web page , malicious downloaders are then installed on their computers , which are designed to record keystrokes and steal passwords , credit card numbers , or other financial information .
the users ' computer could also become part of a botnet , an infected network of compromised computers , operated by a central command and control center .
security researchers first saw evidence of attacks exploiting the ie vulnerability last week , shortly following microsoft 's " patch tuesday " monthly security bulletin release dec. 9 .
since then , researchers have seen active exploitation rapidly spread in the wild .
while exact numbers of victims are difficult to precisely calculate , the number of infected computers could potentially affect hundreds of thousands or millions of computers , experts say .
" there 're people constantly looking at the code , trying to find issues like ( the ie vulnerability ) , " said dave marcus , security research and communications manager for mcafee .
" it gets posted to the internet very quickly . " .
mcafee avert labs researchers reported variants of the ie exploit that attempt to infect users via an activex control that stores the malicious exploit code , stealthily running in the background of a microsoft word document .
malware is then installed on the vulnerable computer once users open up a word document -- all without their knowledge or permission .
" we 've seen some pretty clever ways of people trying to take advantage of this , " said marcus .
" it just speaks to the fact that they look for clever , very unique ways to get malware onto your system . " .
security experts strongly recommend that users apply microsoft 's latest ie patch as soon as possible , which can be downloaded from the microsoft web site .
september 18th , 2013 , 05 : 31 gmt .
microsoft launches emergency patch for internet explorer .
microsoft has just released a new security update for internet explorer in order to patch a flaw affecting all versions of the company " s in - house browser , including ie11 on windows 8 . 1 rtm .
while microsoft claims that it has received reports of attacks aimed at internet explorer 8 and 9 , it appears that the security flaw affects all the other versions of the browser .
according to the company , the issue would allow remote code execution , which means that an attacker could get access to an unpatched system by directing users to a compromised website .
" this issue could allow remote code execution if an affected system browses to a website containing malicious content directed towards the specific browser type .
this would typically occur when an attacker compromises the security of trusted websites regularly frequented , or convinces someone to click on a link in an email or instant message , " the company explained .
the fix it tool released by microsoft can be used for ie6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , and 11 on windows xp , vista , 7 , 8 , and 8 . 1 , both preview and rtm . 32 - and 64 - bit versions of the operating systems are all included in the security advisory .
in addition , the tech giant recommends users to set internet and local intranet security zone settings to " high " in order to block activex controls and active scripting in these zones .
" this will help prevent exploitation but may affect usability ; therefore , trusted sites should be added to the internet explorer trusted sites zone to minimize disruption , " microsoft said .
at the same time , the softies suggest that it would be a good idea to configure internet explorer to prompt before running active scripting or to disable active scripting completely in the internet and local intranet security zones , just to be sure that everyone is on the safe side and no successful attacks are possible .
microsoft releases emergency patch for ie .
microsoft on wednesday released an emergency patch to fix a perilous software flaw allowing hackers to hijack internet explorer browsers and take over computers .
the us software giant said security update ms08-078 addresses a vulnerability cyber-criminals can exploit to their advantage .
" microsoft encourages all ie customers to test and deploy this update as soon as possible , " said microsoft security response communications head christopher budd .
the threat led microsoft to mobilize security engineering teams worldwide to deliver a software cure " in the unprecedented time of eight days . " .
according to researchers at software security firm trend micro , attacks based on the vulnerability in the world 's most popular web browser were spreading " like wildfire " with millions of computers already compromised .
microsoft typically releases patches for its software on the second tuesday of each month and rushing this fix to computer users out-of-cycle is testimony to the severe danger of the threat , according to trend micro .
" people should run , not walk , to get it installed , " said trend micro advanced threat researcher paul ferguson .
" this vulnerability is being actively exploited by cyber-criminals and getting worse every day . " .
the ie software patch will be automatically applied to hundreds of millions of personal computers due to standard update settings in the machines , according to microsoft security response alliance director mike reavey .
wednesday morning , business networks using ie began getting the critical fix through routine patching processes .
reavey said microsoft went into " emergency response " mode on december 9 after it first learned of the attacks on ie browsers .
a day later , microsoft published a security advisory that " listed workarounds that blocked all known attacks . " .
" over the course of the next eight days , this advisory was updated five times , adding newer workarounds and mitigations , " reavey said .
" we also continually monitored the threat environment , noting when the attacks began to change in nature and scope . " .
trend micro has identified about 10,000 websites that have been infected with malicious software that can be surreptitiously slipped into visitors ' unprotected ie browsers to take advantage of the flaw .
a major internet portal in taiwan is among the legitimate websites unknowingly tainted with malicious software aimed at ie 's weak spot , according to ferguson .
hackers can take control of infected computers , steal data , redirect browsers to dubious websites , and use machines for devious activities such as attacks on other networks , according to security specialists .
" what makes this so insidious is it takes advantage of a big gaping hole of ie , which has the largest install base of any browser on the market , " ferguson said .
ie is used on nearly three-quarters of the world 's computers , according to industry statistics from november .
reavey said the patch consists of more than 300 distinct updates for more than half-a-dozen versions of ie in scores of languages .
analyst rob enderle of enderle group in silicon valley said it was " amazing " that microsoft was able to turn out a complex critical fix in a week when such jobs typically can take a month or longer of intense work .
" even with that , the release emergency response process is n't over , " reavey said .
" there is additional support to customers and additional refinement of our product development efforts . " .
trend micro urges ie users to heed precautionary advice from microsoft , or avoid using the browsers , until the patches are applied .
the " exploit " is similar to one used recently to steal user names , passwords and other information from people playing online games in china , according to trend micro .
microsoft releases security patch for internet explorer .
reuters sep 18 , 2013 , 02 . 16pm ist .
microsoft released an emergency software fix for internet explorer on tuesday after hackers exploited a security flaw in the popular web browser to attack an unknown number of users .
the software maker said on its website it released the software , known as a "fix it , " as an emergency measure to protect customers after learning about "extremely limited , targeted attacks" that made use of the newly discovered bug .
microsoft said the attacks took advantage of an undiscovered flaw , or "zero day" vulnerability in industry parlance .
state - sponsored hacking groups are often willing to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars for zero - day vulnerabilities in widely used software such as internet explorer , according to security experts who track that market .
they typically use them on small numbers of carefully selected , high - value targets , to keep such flaws secret .
once microsoft issues a warning about a zero - day bug , other groups of hackers involved in massive cyber - crime operations , such as identity theft , rush to reverse - engineer the fix its so they can build computer viruses that also exploit the same vulnerabilities .
security experts said internet explorer users should either immediately install the fix it or stop using the browser until microsoft can put out an update , which will be automatically installed through its windows update program .
"with the fix it out , i'm sure any attacker who is a bit sophisticated can figure out what the flaw is and implement a similar exploit in their own attack toolkit , " said wolfgang kandek , chief technology officer with the cybersecurity firm qualys inc .
"fix its" are pieces of software for remediating security flaws that must be downloaded and installed on pcs .
they are designed to protect customers while microsoft prepares official updates , automatically delivered via the internet to be installed on computers .
kandek said he expects microsoft to push out an update to address the issue within two to three weeks .
the fix it can be installed by clicking on a link this page on microsoft's support site .
microsoft releases emergency patch for ie .
microsoft has released an emergency patch to fix a software flaw that allows hackers to get into internet explorer browsers and take over computers .
the head of microsoft 's security response team says all users of internet explorer should test and install the update as soon as possible .
experts say without the emergency patch , the flaw could allow criminals to take control of computers and steal users ' passwords even when they are not downloading material .
microsoft says less than 1 per cent of australian pc users have been affected by the problem .
microsoft issues emergency patch to curb password-stealing hackers .
microsoft today issued an emergency update to plug a critical security hole present in all versions of its internet explorer web browser , a flaw that hackers have been leveraging to steal data from millions of windows users .
the patch , which microsoft dubbed ms08-078 , fixes a security vulnerability that microsoft says already has been used to attack more than 2 million windows users .
as security fix and other members of the tech community have chronicled , attackers have been busy compromising thousands of web sites by seeding them with code that installs password-stealing software on computer systems of web site visitors who use internet explorer .
microsoft estimated monday that one in every 500 windows users had been exposed to sites that try to exploit the flaw .
additionally , it said the number of victims was increasing at a rate of 50 percent daily .
vulnerability management company ncircle said microsoft 's decision to issue the patch outside of its normal patch tuesday ( second tuesday of each month ) cycle is wise , given the current exploitation of the flaw and because instructions for exploiting the flaw are now available online .
" given the ongoing attacks for this bug and because the technical details have been available to the public for over a week , this is clearly a high risk client side vulnerability that everyone should patch now , " said andrew storms , director of security for ncircle .
this is an urgent update .
if you use windows , apply this patch now .
windows users can download the fix at windows update , or by enabling automatic updates .
with web attacks increasing , microsoft fixes ie bug .
security experts say that web surfers should immediately install a new bug-fix for microsoft 's internet explorer browser , released wednesday morning .
the flaw , which was accidentally made public by chinese security researchers just over a week ago , has been used in a growing number of web-based attacks over the past few days .
criminals have posted attack code that exploits this flaw on thousands of web sites so far , according to rick howard , intelligence director with verisign 's idefense group .
verisign has now seen six variants of the attack software , all of which attempt to steal chinese online gaming credentials .
often the attack is launched through a hidden iframe component that is surreptitiously put on a web site .
verisign has even spotted one such iframe attack on a legitimate financial institution 's web site , howard said .
" the volume of iframes deploying this thing is really high . " .
the flaw lies in the way internet explorer 's data-binding function works , microsoft said .
when the browser is attacked it will crash , corrupting the computer 's memory and allowing the criminal to run unauthorized software .
view more related contentview all related articles .
because internet explorer is used by about 70 percent of web surfers , this attack code will probably show up in widely used malicious software toolkits " very shortly , " howard said .
other security companies agreed with verisign 's assessment .
" microsoft 's latest ie out-of-band patch release needs to be installed right away , " said shavlik technologies in a statement .
" the number of infected web sites is growing at an alarming rate -- even people visiting legitimate web sites are getting hacked with this exploit . " .
the flaw is so serious , in fact , that microsoft took the unusual step of issuing its security fix weeks ahead of schedule .
typically microsoft releases security patches just once a month in order to simplify the lives of system administrators .
its next set of updates is due jan. 13 .
criminals could also launch their attacks via e-mail , by sending victims maliciously encoded html documents , although this type of attack has not been reported .
microsoft 's patch is for users of ie version 5 and up .
microsoft releases patch for critical ie security flaw .
microsoft released a critical security patch on wednesday to plug vulnerabilities in internet explorer , a move that comes amid malicious attackers taking advantage of the security flaws .
the patch is designed to prevent attackers from downloading malware onto users ' computers if they visit a malicious web site , or a legitimate web site that has been infected .
this zero-day exploit has been in circulation since the first week of december and potentially could have infected a wide swath of users .
the vulnerabilities are found in not only ie 7 , microsoft 's latest browser , but also internet explorer 5.01 , internet explorer 6 , and internet explorer 6 service pack 1 .
microsoft releases critical internet explorer patch .
the out-of-band security update fixes a javascript-related vulnerability that 's being actively exploited through hacked web sites .
microsoft ( nsdq : msft ) has released an out-of-band security update , ms08-078 , to fix a vulnerability in its internet explorer web browser that 's being actively exploited .
" at this time , we are aware only of attacks that attempt to use this vulnerability against windows internet explorer 7 , " said christopher budd , microsoft security response communications lead , in an e-mailed statement .
" our investigation of these attacks so far has verified that they are not successful against customers who have applied the security update .
ms08-078 has a maximum severity rating of critical for all versions of internet explorer . " .
on the heels of the yahoo deal that fell apart v 2 , comeback ceo jerry yang was skewered by the able hands of web 2.0 summit host john battelle .
paul martino , ceo of aggregate knowledge , talks about the company 's " online discovery " tool , which essentially looks across hundreds of millions of web sites and recommends content , products , and services to users in real time .
mashmaker allows developers to add a bit of javascript to any page and have that page automatically populated with appropriate widgets , making the page more useful for site visitors .
nonetheless , microsoft lists internet explorer 5.01 , 6 , and 7 as affected software in its security bulletin .
it also says separately , in the faq section , that internet explorer 8 beta 2 is affected .
the vulnerability can be exploited through javascript code posted on malicious web sites .
internet explorer users may be redirected to these sites through hacked legitimate sites .
if the malicious code is successful , it silently downloads malware onto the victim 's computer .
microsoft typically releases software patches , referred to as security bulletins , on the second tuesday of every month .
when critical vulnerabilities emerge and are actively exploited , microsoft often issues a patch as soon as it 's ready .
the last such out-of-band patch , microsoft security bulletin ms08-067 , was released on oct. 23 .
it addressed a vulnerability in windows server service that affected all currently supported versions of windows .
that vulnerability allowed an attacker to take over affected computers remotely .
when microsoft issued its out-of-band patch in october , it cited the vulnerability 's potential " wormability " -- meaning the hole could be exploited on a massive scale using self-copying malware -- as a reason for its action .
but ms08-078 is n't wormable .
" that shows that the wormability of a vulnerability is no longer a good indicator of the seriousness of a threat and that these web-based threats are now much more dangerous than network worms , " said roel schouwenberg , senior antivirus researcher for kaspersky lab , americas , in an e-mailed statement .
indeed , microsoft security researchers estimated that as many as 1 in 500 users of internet explorer could have been exposed to malware attempting to exploit the flaw .
" the browser flaw had been disclosed roughly one week ago as a zero-day vulnerability , and active exploits have been around the internet for that timeframe as well , " qualys cto wolfgang kandek said in an e-mailed statement .
" the workarounds provided by microsoft were very technical and quite cumbersome to implement , making it imperative for microsoft to release a fix as quickly as possible . " .
kandek suggests that microsoft is at a disadvantage in updating internet explorer because its browser does n't have a built-in update mechanism like other browser makers .
mozilla , for instance , just released firefox 3.05 to firefox users through its auto-update system .
microsoft is urging users of ie to test and deploy this update as soon as possible .
microsoft releases emergency patch for web browser .
microsoft was to release an emergency patch yesterday to fix a perilous software flaw allowing hackers to hijack internet explorer ( ie ) browsers and take over computers .
the us software giant said on tuesday that in response to " the threat to customers " it immediately mobilized security engineering teams worldwide to deliver a software cure " in the unprecedented time of eight days . " .
researchers at software security firm trend micro say attacks based on the vulnerability in the world 's most popular web browser are " spreading like wildfire " with millions of computers already compromised .
microsoft typically releases patches for its software on the second on tuesday of each month and rushing this fix to computer users out-of-cycle is testimony to the severe danger of the threat , according to trend micro .
" when the patch is released people should run , not walk , to get it installed , " said trend micro advanced threat researcher paul ferguson .
" this vulnerability is being actively exploited by cyber-criminals and getting worse every day , " he said .
trend micro has identified about 10,000 web sites that have been infected with malicious software that can be surreptitiously slipped into visitors ' unprotected ie browsers to take advantage of the flaw .
" what makes this so insidious it takes advantage of a big gaping hole of ie , which has the largest install base of any browser on the market , " ferguson said .
ie is used on nearly three-quarters of the world 's computers , industry statistics from last month showed .
microsoft 's move came one day after cisco issued a report saying armies of hijacked computers are flooding the world with spam as hackers devise slicker ways to take over unwitting people 's machines .
virus-infected computers are woven into " botnets " used to attack more machines and to send specious sales pitches to e-mail addresses in low-cost quests to bilk readers out of cash .
" every year we see threats evolve as criminals discover new ways to exploit people , networks and the internet , " cisco chief security researcher patrick peterson said .
this year , botnets were used to inject an array of legitimate web sites with an iframes malicious code that reroutes visitors to web sites that download computer viruses into their machines , cisco said .
internet explorer issue 'fixed ' , say microsoft .
microsoft has said that an emergency security update has fixed a flaw in internet explorer that left millions of computers vulnerable to hacking and hijack .
the software patch , which was released last night , has closed a loophole that has seen the computers of at least two million users hacked by cyber criminals .
the problem related to a " zero day " flaw that tricked people into visiting an infected website , enabling hackers to gain access to online banking passwords and e-shopping logon details .
" microsoft has released a security update for internet explorer that will help protect its customers from malicious attacks , " said the company in a statement .
" like a vaccine developed to fight a virus , this 'security update ' will protect computers only if it is installed . " .
computers that are set to automatically update and install software will already be protected by the patch .
those users who manage their own updates are advised to download the fix as soon as possible from the microsoft website .
" when the patch is released , people should run , not walk , to get it installed , " said paul ferguson , a researcher with trend micro .
" this vulnerability is being actively exploited by cyber criminals and getting worse every day . " .
it is thought that the security flaw , which came to light earlier this week , was exposed by accident , after a chinese security firm , knowsec , released details of the loophole believing microsoft had already issued a software fix to resolve it .
however , technology experts have warned that malware authors , who write the viruses and code that exploits security vulnerabilities , are already working on ways to get around the software update .
" we are seeing customised versions of the ie 7 exploit with varying degrees of obfuscation , " wrote mcafee security expert rahul mohandas on the company blog .
" malware authors have been coming up with innovative mechanisms to leverage this exploit to social engineer the not so tech-savvy internet users . " .
18 september 2013 last updated at 13 : 59 gmt .
microsoft releases fix for 'zero - day' ie browser bug .
microsoft has released a temporary patch to fix a "zero - day" , or previously unknown , vulnerability in its internet explorer ( ie ) web browser .
the software giant said the bug , which relates to the browser's memory , could affect all versions of ie6 to 10 .
attackers could set up websites specifically designed to exploit the vulnerability , microsoft said , and then run malicious code on users' computers .
targeted attacks directed at ie8 and 9 had already been reported , it said .
"this is a serious vulnerability potentially affecting millions of windows computers , " dana tamir , director at security company trusteer , told the bbc .
"hackers are already exploiting this so i hope microsoft produces a full patch within a few days , " she said .
in a blog post , microsoft's dustin childs advised concerned users to set internet and local security zone settings to "high" to block activex controls and active scripting .
he also recommended changing ie settings to prompt users before running active scripting .
but doing this "may affect usability" , he said , so users should add sites they trust , and visit often , to the ie trusted sites zone .
microsoft's fix it patch applies only to 32 - bit versions of ie .
it is not being rolled out automatically and is not intended to be a replacement for scheduled security updates , the company said .
"this temporary workaround is like applying a band - aid to a wound , " said ms tamir .
last week , microsoft admitted that it had been forced to rewrite four of its security updates just three days after they had been issued .
customers had reported receiving repeated demands to install the updates even after they had already done so .
microsoft patches ie , but security issues remain .
as usual , the bad guys are ahead in the tug-of-war over security .
microsoft today released a patch for the latest internet explorer ( ie ) browser vulnerability that has been in the news since last week .
however , malware authors have already begun pushing out customized variants of the flaw that the microsoft patch may not address .
the vulnerability , rooted in ie 's xml parser , lets attackers execute code on their victims ' pcs .
by saturday , at least 6,000 web sites had been infected and the number is growing though ascertaining the exact number is difficult .
however , security experts say things will get much worse , even if users follow microsoft 's ( nasdaq : msft ) advice to install the patch immediately .
currently attacks have only targeted ie 7 , christopher budd , security response communications lead at microsoft , said in a statement .
they have not been successful against systems where the patch has been applied , according to budd .
microsoft is hosting two webcasts to address customer questions about the security bulletin .
the first was set for 1 p.m. pdt today and 11 a.m. pdt tomorrow in the u.s. and canada .
the webcast will be available on demand after that .
according to researcher rahul mohandas on the mcafee ( nyse : mfe ) avert labs blog , malware authors have already begun issuing customized version of the ie exploit with various degrees of stealth .
one of the most prominent techniques is where the attacker sends victims a microsoft word document by e-mail that contains an embedded activex control triggered when the document is opened .
this exploit was listed as one of the sysadmin , audit , network , security ( sans ) institute 's top 20 security risks in 2007 .
victims of the latest exploit are hit by drive-by injection attacks , where they go to a compromised web site that automatically downloads malicious code onto their web site .
malware authors have come up with a new twist on this , dave marcus , security research and communications director at mcafee labs , told internetnews.com .
they plant an iframe onto a legitimate site and the iframe redirects unsuspecting visitors to the site hosting the malicious code .
an iframe is an html element that lets users embed an html document inside another html document .
the cbs ( nyse : cbs ) tv network site was hit by an iframe attack on november 11 that saw visitors redirected to a server in russia , according to security company finjan 's mcrc blog on november 27 .
" we 've seen an awful lot of sites that have been compromised with the iframe on them , " marcus said .
" it 's a very web 2.0 way of spreading malware . " .
microsoft releases out - of - cycle patch for ie flaw .
published on 18th september 2013 .
microsoft's bad september continues to grow worse , with the company being forced to issue an out - of - cycle patch for a zero - day vulnerability in its internet explorer web browser .
microsoft's september got off to a bad start when the company issued a raft of faulty updates as part of its monthly patch tuesday release cycle .
while the issues have now been resolved , the company was forced to remove and re - release a total of ten patches - making it the worst patch tuesday in a six - month run that has seen only a single month go by without a show - stopping fault resulting in patches being reissued following customer complaints .
today's admission from the company isn't going to do much to salve its public image , either : microsoft has confirmed that a flaw in its internet explorer web browser is being actively exploited in targeted attacks , and considers the issue serious enough to release an out - of - cycle fix ahead of next month's patch tuesday .
the update , which is only available for manual installation and will not be published through windows update , is a work - around rather than a true fix for a pretty serious flaw in microsoft's mshtml shim component - which had already been targeted in prior attacks at the start of the year .
'this issue could allow remote code execution if an affected system browses to a website containing malicious content directed towards the specific browser type , ' explained microsoft's dustin childs in an alert to the security community .
'this would typically occur when an attacker compromises the security of trusted websites regularly frequented , or convinces someone to click on a link in an email or instant message .
running modern versions of internet explorer ensures that customers receive the benefit of additional security features that can help prevent successful attacks , ' he added - but while the current targeted attacks are only being pointed at the outdated internet explorer 8 and internet explorer 9 releases , it is thought the flaw could exist across all versions of ie .
for those who use internet explorer , microsoft's advice is to install the out - of - cycle fix - it patch to work around the issue until a proper solution can be found .
the patch applies to all version of internet explorer from ie 6 through to the latest ie 11 , although is only designed to resolve the issue with the 32 - bit version - the 64 - bit version , it would seem , being better protected against the vulnerability .
with microsoft's recent track record for patches causing problems worse than they solve , however , users would be well advised to test the patch on a virtual machine or similar throw - away system before rolling it out on a wider scale .
critical ie patch now available : go get it !
in thursday 's it blogwatch , richi jennings watches bloggers watch microsoft 's latest out-of-cycle , critical patch for internet explorer .
not to mention portability , 1980 's style ... .
as it promised [ tuesday ] , microsoft corp. today issued an emergency patch to plug a critical hole in internet explorer ( ie ) that attackers have been increasingly exploiting from hacked web sites .
the patch , described in microsoft 's security bulletin ms08-078 , fixes a flaw in the data-binding function of all available versions of the popular browser , including ie5.01 , ie6 , ie7 and ie8 beta 2 .
microsoft labeled the bug as " critical , " the most serious threat ranking in its four-step scoring system .
according to both microsoft and numerous security firms , attacks have been mounting , particularly since last weekend , when hackers began hijacking legitimate web sites and launching exploits against unwary visitors .
in fact , microsoft said it monitored a " huge increase " in attacks last saturday .
the number of infected web sites , many of them legitimate , has grown at " an alarming " rate since the vulnerability was released into the wild and people need to do nothing but visit an infected site with a vulnerable browser to be affected .
by friday , microsoft was aware users were becoming infected at a rate even faster than previous zero-day exploits .
originally porn sites seemed to be the carriers , but the number of legit sites causing infections was skyrocketing .
hackers were planting the exploit using well-known sql injection techniques .
it is users ' turn to protect themselves by installing this emergency patch and all all the others , and fast .
since the bad guys were exploiting it before microsoft knew it existed , the exploit is termed " zero day " because that is how much notice microsoft got of the problem .
it is also termed an " drive-by " exploit since a user could pick up a malware infestation by merely using ie to browse any of thousands of compromised websites .
in short , it was really nasty stuff .
brian krebs sounds worried .
microsoft estimated monday that one in every 500 windows users had been exposed to sites that try to exploit the flaw .
additionally , it said the number of victims was increasing at a rate of 50 percent daily .
this is an urgent update .
if you use windows , apply this patch now .
microsoft 's mike reavey grabs the mic .
this update will be applied automatically to hundreds of millions of customers through automatic updates over the next few days .
and , for our enterprise customers - with multiple systems within their networks - this update can be deployed through all standard security update management systems including , sccm , sms , wsus , and windows update .
this update meets the quality , deployment and application compatibility criteria .
it is a high-quality update , ready for broad release , and we encourage customers to test and deploy this update as quickly as possible .
we were able to share detailed information with our partners in the microsoft active protections program ( mapp ) and microsoft security response alliance ( msra ) , allowing protections to be created for over 24 different security partners ' products .
this is further validation of our commitment to 'community based defense ' and means customers that ... were n't even using microsoft products , were also protected from known attacks .
ed oswald is impressed by microsoft 's speed .
well , that was quick .
it 's pretty bad when security experts are telling your customers to switch .
these are unbiased ( for the most part ) folks , and the typical computer user is going to take their advice seriously .
but tiny dancer ... well , not so much .
eight days is rather shamefully long to have to wait for a potentially devastating vulnerability to be fixed .
this ai n't hanukkah , microsoft , and you ai n't no maccabee .
hackers exploit critical ie bug ; microsoft promises patch .
ie6 through ie11 harbor vulnerability , but in - the - wild attacks limited to ie8 and ie9 .
september 17 , 2013 03 : 16 pm et .
computerworld - microsoft today said that hackers are exploiting a critical , but unpatched , vulnerability in internet explorer 8 ( ie8 ) and internet explorer 9 ( ie9 ) , and that its engineers are working on an update to plug the hole .
as it often does , the company downplayed the threat .
"there are only reports of a limited number of targeted attacks specifically directed at internet explorer 8 and 9 , although the issue could potentially affect all supported versions , " dustin childs , a manager in the trustworthy computing group and its usual spokesman , said in a blog post tuesday morning .
"we are actively working to develop a security update to address this issue , " childs added .
according to childs and the security advisory microsoft also published today , the vulnerability affects all supported versions of ie , from the 12 - year - old ie6 to the not - yet - officially - released ie11 , the browser that will accompany windows 8 . 1 when it ships oct . 18 .
"there is no escaping this one , " said andrew storms , director of devops at cloud security vendor cloudpassage , referring to the bug affecting all versions of microsoft's browser .
"ie zero - days are never a good thing , especially when they affect every version , " storms added .
although microsoft's advisory did not put it in these terms , the vulnerability can be exploited using classic "drive - by" attack tactics .
that means hackers need only lure victims running ie to malicious sites - - or legitimate websites that have previously been compromised and loaded with attack code - - to hijack their browser and plant malware on their windows pcs .
until microsoft produces a patch , the company offered customers several options to protect themselves , including advice on configuring emet 4 . 0 and running one of its "fixit" automated tools to "shim" the dll that contains the ie rendering engine .
emet ( enhanced mitigation experience toolkit ) is a tool designed for advanced users , primarily enterprise it professionals , that manually enables anti - exploit technologies such as aslr ( address space layout randomization ) and dep ( data execution prevention ) for specific applications .
but the fixit route will be easiest for individual users : microsoft's posted a link to the fixit tool on its support site , and customers need only click the icon marked "enable . " .
microsoft has used the shim approach before when faced with unexpected attacks against ie .
based on past practice , microsoft's fixit workaround probably uses the application compatibility toolkit to modify the core library of ie - - a dll ( dynamic link library ) named "mshtml . dll" that contains the browser's rendering engine - - in memory each time ie runs .
the shim does not quash the bug , but instead makes the browser immune to the attacks microsoft's seen in the wild thus far .
users can also temporarily ditch ie for an alternate browser , such as google's chrome or mozilla's firefox , to stay safe until microsoft comes up with a permanent fix .
microsoft today declined say when it plans to patch the ie vulnerability .
but because the next regularly - scheduled patch tuesday is three weeks away , it's possible the redmond , wash . company's security team will deliver a so - called "out - of - band" update before oct . 9 .
out - of - band updates from microsoft are rare : the last one it shipped was ms13 - 008 , an the emergency patch issued jan . 14 that plugged a hole in ie6 , ie7 and ie8 that had been exploited since early december 2012 .
microsoft releases security update for internet explorer .
microsoft has released an emergency security update to fix the vulnerability in internet explorer that has seen the computers of at least two million users hacked .
the " zero day " flaw allows hackers to gain access to the computers of visitors to infected websites , jeopardising the security of passwords , bank details and other personal information .
it is believed that as many as 233,000 web pages have been affected .
microsoft says its " critical " update will protect users .
christopher budd , of the software giant 's security centre , said the company " encourages all internet explorer customers to test and deploy this update as soon as possible " .
mike reavey , also from the security centre , said : " even with that , the release emergency response process is n't over .
there is additional support to customers and additional refinement of our product development efforts . " .
microsoft has said that the flaw has been proven to exist only in version 7 of internet explorer , but that version 6 and the " beta " release of version 8 are also " potentially vulnerable " .
it has estimated that one in every 500 windows users has been exposed to websites that attempt to exploit the flaw , and that the number of victims was increasing by 50 per cent every day .
paul ferguson , a researcher from the software security company trend micro , told the bbc that attacks were spreading " like wildfire " .
" this vulnerability is being actively exploited by cyber-criminals and getting worse every day , " mr ferguson said .
microsoft rushes emergency fix to address internet explorer attacks .
september 17 , 2013 4 : 16 pm et .
microsoft has rushed out a temporary fix to address ongoing attacks targeting an internet explorer zero - day vulnerability .
the software giant said the fix - it temporary workaround should be effective in preventing a successful attack .
the company said the vulnerability impacts all currently supported versions of the browser , but attacks have been limited to users of internet explorer 8 and internet explorer 9 .
"on completion of this investigation , microsoft will take the appropriate action to protect our customers , which may include providing a solution through our monthly security update release process , or an out - of - cycle security update , depending on customer needs , " the company said in a security advisory issued tuesday .
"in addition , we are actively working with partners to monitor the threat landscape and take action against malicious sites that attempt to exploit this vulnerability . " .
the fact that microsoft is rushing out a patch so quickly indicates the threat is serious , said paul henry , security and forensic analyst at lumension .
cybercriminals can set up drive - by attack campaigns or lure victims to a website hosting malware that targets the coding error .
"this seems to be perfectly positioned for drive - by malware using compromised websites , " henry told crn .
"since these are targeted attacks , someone is restricting use of it ; they don't want information about this out in the wild because they want to be able to profit from it or use it in nation - state attacks . " .
the attack is very targeted and limited to japan , according to wolfgang kandek , chief technology officer of qualys .
"it might not affect you at the moment .
but with the publication of the shim , other attackers can now analyze the condition fixed and will be able to produce an equivalent exploit fairly quickly , " kandek wrote in a blog post about the issue .
"we suggest applying the fix - it as soon as possible if you use ie to access the internet . " .
the flaw stems from an error in the way the browser accesses an object in memory that has been deleted or has not been properly allocated .
the coding error results in memory corruption , giving an attacker the ability to execute code in the context of the current user within internet explorer , microsoft said .
as part of its september 2013 patch tuesday updates , microsoft repaired 47 vulnerabilities , including 10 critical flaws in internet explorer .
microsoft issues emergency patch for internet explorer .
microsoft has issued an emergency patch for its internet explorer browser , aiming to fix a critical flaw that allowed hackers to take over computers merely by steering them to infected websites .
microsoft wednesday took the rare step of issuing the patch after numerous security experts advised people to switch to rival browsers until microsoft fixed the problem .
microsoft usually releases patches on a set schedule and this is only the third emergency patch in the last three years .
the flaw has been in circulation since the first week of december .
so far , more than two million computers are believed to have been infected , according to pc magazine .
the vulnerabilities are found on copies of internet explorer 7 , as well as ie6 and ie5 .
the patch is designed to prevent attackers from downloading malware onto users ' computers if they visit a malicious web site , or a legitimate web site that has been infected .
microsoft issues patch to fix ie bug .
september 19 , 2013 .
microsoft has reportedly issued a patch to fix a previously unknown vulnerability in its internet explorer ( ie ) web browser .
the software manufacturer said that the bug , related to the browser's memory , could affect all versions of ie6 to 10 as hackers could set up websites to exploit the vulnerability and run malicious code on users' computers .
according to the bbc , microsoft's dustin childs advised users to set internet and local security zone settings to 'high' to block activex controls and active scripting apart from adding sites they trust to the ie trusted sites zone .
microsoft's fix it patch applies only to 32 - bit versions of ie and is not being rolled out automatically and it is not intended to be a replacement for scheduled security updates .
director at security company trusteer , dana tamir said that the patch is a temporary workaround , like applying a band - aid to a wound .
users have complained that they were repeatedly receiving update installation messages even after they had already done so , the report added .
microsoft patches major ie bug .
in record time , microsoft released today an " out of band " patch for a significant security flaw in internet explorer that burst onto the scene 8 days ago .
we strongly recommend that all windows users , especially windows xp and windows 2000 users , apply the patch as soon as possible .
it is available on windows update and through automatic updates and by direct download through the security advisory for the vulnerability .
here is the description of the vulnerability that it presents .
a remote code execution vulnerability exists as an invalid pointer reference in the data binding function of internet explorer .
when data binding is enabled ( which is the default state ) , it is possible under certain conditions for an object to be released without updating the array length , leaving the potential to access the deleted object 's memory space .
this can cause internet explorer to exit unexpectedly , in a state that is exploitable .
that 's not quite enough to help you to write an exploit , but it 's a lot more detail than they usually release .
once again , run , do n't walk , to your vulnerable pcs and apply these updates .
microsoft : ie zero day flaw affects all versions .
microsoft said today that attackers are exploiting a previously unknown , unpatched vulnerability in all supported versions of its internet explorer web browser .
the company said it is working on an official patch to plug the security hole , but in the meantime it has released a stopgap fix to help protect affected customers .
microsoft said it is aware of targeted attacks that attempt to exploit the vulnerability ( cve - 2013 - 3893 ) in ie 8 and ie 9 versions of the default windows browser .
according to an advisory issued today , the flaw is a remote code bug , which means malware or miscreants could use it install malware just by coaxing ie users to browse a hacked or malicious web site .
the fix it solution is available from this link .
to apply it , click the fix it icon above the fix this problem link .
applying this solution may limit some functionalities of ie , so if you run into problems after applying this interim patch , you can click the fix it icon to the right of that " enable " button to reverse the update .
update : as several readers have already noted in the comments , this fix it solution is for 32 - bit versions of ie only .
in 64 - bit windows , you can tell whether the browser you " re using is a 32 - bit or 64 - bit version by opening the windows task manager ( ctrl+shift+esc ) and clicking the processes tab .
the number that appears after the process name ( in this case , iexplore . exe ) indicates the version in use .
microsoft issues patch to fix ie .
microsoft has issued a security patch to fix a critical vulnerability in its internet explorer browser which it said has attacked over 2m windows users .
the flaw is believed to have already infected as many as 10,000 websites .
the " zero day " exploit let criminals take over victims ' computers by steering them to infected websites .
microsoft 's christopher budd said the software giant " encourages all ie customers to test and deploy this update as soon as possible " .
he also said the threat led microsoft to mobilise security engineering teams worldwide to deliver a software cure " in the unprecedented time of eight days " .
the company 's security response team said the patch consists of more than 300 distinct updates for more than half-a-dozen versions of ie in around 50 languages .
" even with that , the release emergency response process is n't over , " said security response alliance director mike reavey .
" there is additional support to customers and additional refinement of our product development efforts . " .
microsoft stressed that the flaw was proven to exist only in ie 7 on all applicable versions of windows , but that ie 6 and the " beta " release of ie 8 were " potentially vulnerable " .
users who have automatic updates turned on will receive the patch over the next 24 hours while others can access it via a download .
the azn trojan has been making the rounds since the beginning of december but became public knowledge in the last week .
unlike other exploits , users only have to visit a malicious site with trojans or other malware in order to become contaminated .
once an infected web page is opened , malicious downloaders are installed on the computer designed to record keystrokes and steal passwords , credit card details and other financial information .
the sites affected are mostly chinese and have been serving up programmes to steal passwords for computer games which can then be sold for cash on the black market .
internet explorer is the world 's most widely used web browser with nearly three quarters of the market share .
microsoft estimated that one in every 500 windows users had been exposed to sites that tried to exploit the flaw and the number of victims was increasing at a rate of 50 % daily .
researchers at the software security firm trend micro said attacks were spreading " like wildfire " .
" this vulnerability is being actively exploited by cyber-criminals and getting worse every day , " said the company 's advanced threat researcher paul ferguson .
microsoft labelled the bug as " critical , " the most serious threat ranking in its four-step scoring programme .
the update is something of an unusual move for microsoft and underscores the seriousness of the zero day flaw .
the company rarely issues security fixes for its software outside of its regular monthly patch updates .
meanwhile mozilla has released a scheduled update for its open source firefox web browsers for at least 10 different vulnerabilities .
the bugs in the browser could have been " used to run attacker code and install software , requiring no user interaction beyond normal browsing , " said mozilla .
it is also reissuing calls for users to upgrade from firefox 2.0 to firefox 3.0 as soon as possible and said it is " not planning any further security and stability updates for firefox 2 " .
this means mozilla will no longer support the firefox 2 browser against future online scams and attacks .
microsoft to release patch for internet explorer .
'the fix' will remedy a vulnerability that allows an attacker to gain remote control of a windows machine . .
wed , sep 19 2012 at 11 : 47 am .
microsoft will push out an out - of - cycle windows patch to temporarily fix the critical internet explorer flaw revealed earlier this week .
"while we have only seen a few attempts to exploit the issue , impacting an extremely limited number of people , we are taking this proactive step to help ensure internet explorer customers are protected and able to safely browse online , " microsoft trustworthy computing director yunsun wee said in a blog posting on sept . 18 .
"the fix it is an easy - to - use , one - click , full - strength solution any internet explorer user can install , " wee wrote .
"it will not affect your ability to browse the web , and it will provide full protection against this issue until an update is available .
it won " t require a reboot of your computer .
"this fix it will be available for everyone to download and install within the next few days , " she added .
microsoft usually pushes out software updates and security patches on the second tuesday of every month .
out - of - cycle patches are reserved for the most serious flaws .
it's not clear what exactly microsoft has in mind , if , as wee indicates , the "fix it" is not a real update .
microsoft initially suggested that all internet explorer users install and configure a utility called the enhanced mitigation experience toolkit ( emet ) to prevent exploitation of the flaw , but admitted emet might interfere with other applications .
most security experts , and the german government , have recommended a simpler solution : stop using internet explorer entirely until the flaw is fully fixed .
the internet explorer vulnerability allows an attacker to gain remote control of a windows machine at the same level of privilege as the current user .
that's not so bad if a given machine's current user has limited privileges , but very serious if the current user has administrator rights and can install , modify or delete software .
the flaw affects all currently distributed and supported versions of internet explorer and windows : internet explorer versions 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 and windows xp , vista and 7 , as well as windows server 2003 , and 2008 .
windows 8 , due to be released to the general public oct . 26 , and its accompanying web browser , internet explorer 10 , are not affected .
nor is windows server 2012 .
microsoft issues emergency ie patch as attacks escalate .
microsoft has issued a rare emergency update for its internet explorer browser as miscreants stepped up attacks targeting a vulnerability on hundreds of thousands of webpages .
in many cases , the websites distributing the toxic payload are legitimate destinations that have been commandeered , allowing an attacker to snare victims as they surf to online banks , forums , and other trusted sites .
there are at least six distinct versions of attack code circulating in the wild , according to researchers at idefense , a security lab owned by verisign .
a web search showed 233,000 pages containing the string ardoshanghai.com/s.js , just one of many web addresses exploiting a weakness in the way ie 's data-binding function works .
most of the attacks silently install keylogging software as soon as a victim surfs to a site carrying the exploit .
once installed , the software steals login credentials for online games .
attack strings in separate sql injections include 17gamo.com/1.js .
researchers say the number of attack sites is too high to keep exhaustive lists , but shadowserver is doing an admirable job here .
" the vulnerability is so juicy that we expect it to show up in tool kits fairly shortly , " said rick howard , intelligence director of idefense .
the patch was released eight days after reports began circulating that websites were targeting a vulnerability in fully patched versions of ie .
this is only the second time in 18 months that microsoft has issued an unscheduled update .
typically , patches are available on the second tuesday of each month to allow system administrators time for planning .
given the prevalence of attacks , there 's no good reason why anyone running a windows machine should n't stop what they 're doing and install the patch immediately ( those with administrative rights , anyway ) - doing so is as easy as opening ie and selecting windows update from the tools menu .
the patch can also be downloaded directly here .
howard mentioned the site of " a major financial institution " that he found hosting the exploit , so do n't think you 're immune just because you steer clear of porn and warez .
microsoft rushes out security patch for internet explorer .
17 september 2013 - 21 : 29 .
normally , microsoft releases security bulletins for software products on the second tuesday of each month .
that happened last week as scheduled , but today the company announced it has rushed out an additional patch designed to fix an exploit that has been found in internet explorer , and is being used in attacks on ie8 and ie9 .
in a post on its security response blog , microsoft says the issue would allow a hacker to launch a remote code execution if a person surfs to a website using ie that contains malicious code .
the blog adds , "there are only reports of a limited number of targeted attacks specifically directed at internet explorer 8 and 9 , although the issue could potentially affect all supported versions . " .
the company has released a "fix - it" patch , "cve - 2013 - 3893 mshtml shim workaround" to plug this security hole in all currently supported versions of ie .
in addition , microsoft recommends that users set their security settings on the web browser to "high" to block any activex controls and active scripting on websites .
it also recommends users set up ie so that it informs them ahead of time before running any active scripting features .
the company plans to release a full security patch that will be a more complete solution to this problem in the near future .
microsoft rushes to release patch to fix web browser flaw .
microsoft on wednesday issued an urgent patch to fix an internet explorer ( ie ) web browser flaw that may have been used by hackers to attack millions of computer users .
the security update for ie , dubbed ms08-078 , resolves a publicly disclosed vulnerability that " could allow remote code execution if a user views a specially crafted web page using internet explorer , " the software giant said in a statement .
the flaw could allow hackers to take control of computers and steal passwords and credit card information .
writing in a company blog , mike reavey , director of the microsoft security response center , urged users to test and deploy the security update " as quickly as possible . " .
microsoft said the update is for ie on all currently supported versions of windows .
users can now download it for their home computers or laptops from microsoft update website .
microsoft security experts estimated earlier that roughly 0.2 percent of ie users worldwide may have been exposed to websites containing exploits of the latest vulnerability , which means millions of users are in danger of having their computers infected .
latest statistics from research firm net applications showed that ie still dominates the browser market with a share of nearly 70 percent .
microsoft rushes urgent fix for internet explorer .
it " s not patch tuesday , but microsoft has released a crucial update for internet explorer that you should apply immediately .
microsoft included a cumulative update for internet explorer in the 13 security bulletins that made up patch tuesday last week , and that update was considered critical as well .
since then , though , a new flaw has been targeted by attacks in the wild , so microsoft has responded with an out - of - band update .
apply the urgent fix - it solution from microsoft to protect internet explorer from exploits .
the update from microsoft is a fix - it tool , which is more of a stop - gap bandage than an actual patch .
applying the fix - it will protect internet explorer and prevent the currently circulating exploit from working on your systems .
paul henry , security and forensic analyst with lumension , says that there are number of mitigating factors that limit the potential scope of this threat , but those factors may offer little consolation for many users .
" the bad news is that this is a very wide - reaching patch , affecting all versions of ie across all operating systems , from xp to rt , " he says .
"and more bad news : the average user is very susceptible to being hit with this . " .
microsoft claims that running internet explorer in enhanced security configuration mode prevents this attack .
internet explorer runs in this restricted mode by default on windows server 2008 , windows server 2008 r2 , windows server 2012 , and windows server 2012 r2 .
microsoft states that all supported versions of outlook , outlook express , and windows mail include protection by default as well .
html email messages are opened by default in the restricted sites security zone , which disables scripts and activex controls necessary for the exploit to execute .
however , microsoft cautions that the protection in outlook only applies to the html message within outlook itself .
if a user receives an email with a link and clicks on it , they " re still potentially vulnerable because the threat is now web - based and functioning outside of outlook .
" the average user does not run the restricted sites mode , are not using the enhanced security configuration and are all - too - willing to click on phishing emails , " henry explains , "i recommend employing the mitigating factors , as well as advising users about this so they will be less likely to click malicious links until you can apply the patch .
it " s been a while since we " ve seen an out - of - band patch for ie from microsoft , but it " s still important to apply it as soon as possible . " .
" it's important to reiterate that all versions of ie are affected including the internet explorer 11 preview , tyler reguly , technical manager of security research and development for tripwire , says .
"since attacks are occurring now , this is a situation where it's in everyone's best interest for microsoft to release a patch as soon as possible .
in the meantime , install the shim that they've released . " .
he adds , " for less technical users that aren't comfortable with microsoft fix it solutions , using another browser until a patch is available is the best option , " .
a couple additional notes : the fix - it solution only works with 32 - bit versions of internet explorer , and you must first apply the cumulative update for internet explorer from last week " s patch tuesday ( ms13 - 069 ) .
mark felt , who was known as watergate scandal informant 'deep throat , ' died on friday .
he was 95 .
felt worked as the associate director of the fbi in the 1970s and is one of the most famous anonymous sources for the press in american history .
his daughter joan felt said her father ate a big breakfast before saying he was tired , and went to sleep , she told the washington post .
he died at 12:45 p.m. on thursday at his home in santa rosa , california , the post stated .
" he slipped away , " she said .
felt blew the whistle on a corrupt administration trying to cover up attempts to sabotage opponents .
he secretly guided washington post reporter bob woodward and his colleague carl bernstein who pursued the story of the 1972 break-in of the democratic national committee 's headquarters at the watergate office buildings .
that ultimately led to the resignation of president richard m. nixon .
felt insisted on remaining completely anonymous until may 30 , 2005 when felt 's family revealed his identity in an article for vanity fair magazine .
fred larue , nixon administration aide , dies .
wednesday , july 28 , 2004 .
fred larue , a watergate figure and high - ranking nixon administration official who once was rumored to be deep throat , has died of natural causes .
he was 75 .
his body was discovered tuesday by a maid who entered his hotel room in biloxi , coroner gary hargrove said .
larue was known as the "bagman" who delivered payoffs to keep participants in the watergate break - in quiet , and served 41 / 2 months in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
larue served as special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later headed president nixon's re - election committee .
larue was present at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder at nixon's vacation home in key biscayne , fla . , where the plan to break into the watergate complex in washington allegedly was hatched .
larue said he advised against the burglarization of the building , which housed democratic party headquarters .
after his political career ended in scandal , larue returned to his home state of mississippi to work in his family's oil company and with its real estate holdings .
larue discounted rumors that he was deep throat , saying the mysterious source for washington post reporters bob woodward and carl bernstein on the watergate story was not one person , but probably a combination of several people .
mark felt , ' deep throat ' of watergate , dead at 95 .
w. mark felt , who leaked information to reporters under the moniker , " deep throat , " about the watergate break-in , died thursday at the age of 95 , sources told cnn .
mark felt , known as " deep throat , " divulged information to reporters about the watergate break-in .
rob jones , felt 's grandson , said his grandfather died at his home in santa rosa , california .
according to published reports , felt died of congestive heart failure .
felt admitted in a 2005 vanity fair article he was the washington post 's source for many of its 400 stories on the watergate affair during the early nineteen seventies .
the watergate break-in eventually led to the 1974 resignation of president richard nixon .
" i 'm proud of everything that deep throat did , " felt , 92 , told cnn 's " larry king live " in 2006 , his first public interview on the subject .
felt 's entanglement with history occurred in 1972 after the bungled break-in at the democratic national party offices in the watergate hotel .
felt , an associate director at the fbi , said he was unhappy with the way the administration meddled with the investigation into the break-in , which led him to divulge information to the newspaper .
video watch how felt played a pivotal role in presidential history .
carl bernstein and bob woodward , then-rookie reporters with the washington post , did stories about the break-in and subsequent cover-up .
both men credited felt for helping them , but bernstein said felt was a tough interview .
" he did n't leak .
he had to really be squeezed , " bernstein said in a 2006 interview .
" he confirmed mostly what we had gotten elsewhere .
he did n't want to volunteer a lot of information , yet his role was essential in giving us a solidity and a knowledge that what we were reporting was right . " .
fred larue , top nixon aide , dies at 75 .
published : july 28 , 2004 at 1 : 24 pm .
fred larue , a richard nixon white house aide and key player in the watergate scandal , was found dead in his room at a biloxi , miss . , motel , it was reported wednesday .
larue was 75 , the biloxi sun herald reported wednesday .
he was found dead , reportedly of natural causes , in his room at the sun tan motel tuesday morning , officials said .
larue returned to mississippi to tend his family's real estate and oil interests after serving more than four years for his role in the watergate scandal .
known as the "bagman , " he was arguably nixon's most vital defender .
watching the pbs documentary looking back at watergate last summer , larue called magruder a "congenital liar" and insisted nixon had no knowledge of the plans .
larue was occasionally identified as "deep throat , " the shadowy character believed to have helped two washington post reporters crack a bevy of nixon - era secrets , including the watergate break - in .
but he denied he or any one individual could have been such a figure .
mark felt , 'deep throat ' in watergate reports , dies .
former fbi official had storied role in washington post investigation that brought down nixon .
w. mark felt , the former fbi official who ended one of the united states ' most intriguing political mysteries when he identified himself as " deep throat " -- the nickname for the anonymous source who helped guide the washington post 's pulitzer prize-winning investigation into the watergate scandal -- has died .
he was 95 .
a controversial figure who was later convicted of authorizing illegal activities in pursuit of members of the radical weather underground , felt died of heart failure thursday at his home in santa rosa , calif . , his grandson rob jones said .
felt was deputy associate director of the fbi in 1972 when he began supplying information to bob woodward , who with carl bernstein made up the post 's investigative duo who doggedly pursued the story of the watergate break-in and a conspiracy that led directly to president richard m. nixon , who ultimately resigned .
the reporters continued to keep felt 's name a secret , but in 2005 , at the age of 91 , felt told vanity fair magazine , " i 'm the guy they used to call deep throat . " .
his disclosure ended a mystery that had intrigued washington insiders and journalists for three decades and provided the grist for many hotly debated newspaper and magazine articles .
while felt 's name was raised as a suspect on several occasions , he always managed to deflect attention , usually by saying that if had been deep throat he would have done a better job of exposing the wrongdoings at the white house .
his disclosure in a vanity fair article by his family 's lawyer , john d. o'connor , provoked a national debate .
was he a hero who should be lauded for sparing the country the strain of further high crimes and misdemeanors by the nixon white house ?
or was he a traitor who betrayed not only his president but his oath of office by disclosing grand jury information and the contents of fbi files ?
for the most part , reaction split along political lines .
" there 's nothing heroic about breaking faith with your people , " said commentator patrick j. buchanan , a former nixon speechwriter .
felt " disgraced himself and dishonored everything an fbi agent should stand for . " .
but richard ben-veniste , a key lawyer in the watergate prosecution team , said felt 's role showed that " the importance of whistle-blowers should n't be underestimated , particularly when there are excesses by the executive branch of government -- which in this case went all the way to the executive office . " .
felt 's moment in history began to unfold shortly after five men in business suits were arrested at the watergate complex in washington on june 17 , 1972 , after breaking into the offices of the democratic national committee .
nixon press secretary ron ziegler dismissed the incident as " a third-rate burglary , " but details gradually tumbled out tying the burglars to the president 's re-election campaign .
misdeeds in the white house were uncovered , hearings were conducted in the house of representatives and senate , and for the first time in american history a president was forced to resign .
the relationship that defined a generation in journalism began about 1970 when woodward was a navy lieutenant assigned to the pentagon as a watch officer .
in his book , " the secret man : the story of watergate 's deep throat , " published after the vanity fair article appeared , woodward wrote that he met felt when he delivered a package of documents to the white house and struck up a conversation with him in a waiting room .
from that initial meeting , woodward cultivated a friendship that would pay off handsomely after he entered journalism .
felt began to provide tips to woodward when he was a cub reporter at the montgomery county sentinel , a suburban maryland newspaper , and later at the post , where he was tipped by felt on stories about the investigation of the 1972 shooting of george c. wallace , the alabama governor then running for president .
when woodward was assigned to the watergate break-in , he again pressed felt for help .
his request came during a crucial moment in the fbi 's history .
felt 's mentor , the legendary founding director j. edgar hoover , had died the month before the break-in , and assistant attorney general l. patrick gray iii had been named acting director .
felt feared -- and his suspicions were later proven right -- that gray was too close to the nixon administration to conduct an uncompromised investigation .
felt agreed to help woodward but only on " deep background , " a term meaning that " the information could be used , " woodward wrote , " but no source of any kind would be identified in the newspaper . " .
felt insisted on using covert rules he had learned while working in the fbi 's espionage section during world war ii .
if woodward needed to talk to felt , he would move a flower pot with a red cloth flag in it to the front of his apartment balcony .
if felt needed to talk to the reporter -- to correct something the post had written or to convey other information -- he would circle page 20 in woodward 's home-delivered copy of the new york times and draw clock hands on the page to indicate the time of the meeting .
he resisted telephone contact in favor of clandestine 2 a.m. encounters at an underground parking garage in rosslyn , virginia .
the two met from june 19 , 1972 -- two days after the break-in -- to november 1973 , five months after felt left the fbi .
within the paper , only woodward and bernstein knew the identity of deep throat , a name borrowed from a notorious pornographic movie of the era .
but felt dealt only with woodward , and bernstein did not meet him until 2008 .
when nixon left office on aug. 9 , 1974 , the two reporters shared the secret with post editor benjamin c. bradlee , who until then had only known that the source was a high justice department official .
nixon , according to woodward , had suspected felt of being the confidential source and assumed him to be part of a jewish cabal out to get him .
according to vanity fair , felt had no religious affiliation .
fred larue , 75 ; delivered 'hush' money in watergate .
july 28 , 2004 .
fred larue , a close aide to former attorney general john mitchell and the first person to plead guilty in the watergate scandal , died of natural causes .
he was 75 .
his body was discovered yesterday by a maid who entered his hotel room in biloxi .
coroner gary hargrove said he believes that mr . larue died saturday .
mr . larue was known as the "bagman" who delivered payoffs to keep participants in the watergate break - in quiet .
he served four months in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
mr . larue served as special assistant to mitchell , who later headed president nixon's reelection committee .
mr . larue was present at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder at nixon's vacation home in key biscayne , fla . , where the plan to break into the watergate complex in washington was allegedly hatched .
mr . larue said he advised against the burglarization of the building , which housed democratic party headquarters .
after his political career ended in scandal , mr . larue returned to his home state of mississippi to work in his family's oil company and with its real estate holdings .
he also spent much time catching shrimp in the gulf of mexico .
a few researchers of the scandal have suggested that mr . larue could have been deep throat .
he discounted those rumors , saying the mysterious source for washington post reporters bob woodward and carl bernstein on the watergate story was not one person , but probably a combination of several people .
mark 'deep throat ' felt dead at 95 .
we 're all learning this morning of the death , at age 95 , of w. mark felt , who as a senior federal bureau of investigation official , served as the shadowy source known as " deep throat " to reporter bob woodward in his investigation of the watergate scandal that led to president nixon 's resignation .
as johanna neuman writes in a los angeles times piece .
a controversial figure who was later convicted of authorizing illegal activities in pursuit of members of the radical weather underground , felt died of heart failure thursday at his home in santa rosa , calif. , his grandson rob jones said .
felt was deputy associate director of the fbi in 1972 when he began supplying information to bob woodward , who with carl bernstein made up the post 's investigative duo who doggedly pursued the story of the watergate break-in and a conspiracy that led directly to president richard m. nixon , who ultimately resigned .
the reporters continued to keep felt 's name a secret , but in 2005 , at the age of 91 , felt told vanity fair magazine , " i 'm the guy they used to call deep throat . " .
his disclosure ended a mystery that had intrigued washington insiders and journalists for three decades and provided the grist for many hotly debated newspaper and magazine articles .
while felt 's name was raised as a suspect on several occasions , he always managed to deflect attention , usually by saying that if had been deep throat he would have done a better job of exposing the wrongdoings at the white house .
his disclosure in a vanity fair article by his family 's lawyer , john d. o'connor , provoked a national debate .
was he a hero who should be lauded for sparing the country the strain of further high crimes and misdemeanors by the nixon white house ?
or was he a traitor who betrayed not only his president but his oath of office by disclosing grand jury information and the contents of fbi files ?
for the most part , reaction split along political lines .
" there 's nothing heroic about breaking faith with your people , " said commentator patrick j. buchanan , a former nixon speechwriter .
felt " disgraced himself and dishonored everything an fbi agent should stand for . " .
but richard ben-veniste , a key lawyer in the watergate prosecution team , said felt 's role showed that " the importance of whistle-blowers should n't be underestimated , particularly when there are excesses by the executive branch of government -- which in this case went all the way to the executive office . " .
lawman 's unwavering compass led him to white house showdown .
w. mark felt sr. , the associate director of the fbi during the watergate scandal who , better known as " deep throat , " became the most famous anonymous source in american history , died yesterday .
felt died at 12:45 p.m . at his home in santa rosa , calif .
on tuesday , oct. 10 , 1972 , washington awoke to this startling news .
" fbi agents have established that the watergate bugging incident stemmed from a massive campaign of political spying and sabotage conducted on behalf of president nixon 's reelection and directed by officials of the white house and the committee for the re-election of the president , " the washington post reported .
bob woodward and carl bernstein wrote that story , but it would not have been possible , they would later tell the world , without the clandestine help of the most famous unnamed source in history , w. mark felt -- the man they called " deep throat . " .
he was the associate director of the fbi , and he guided the reporters , all along insisting that watergate was not an isolated incident but part of a wider conspiracy designed to destroy democratic presidential candidates who might run against nixon .
instead , the watergate scandal subsequently destroyed the nixon presidency .
facing impeachment , nixon resigned the presidency in disgrace less than two years after that day in october when , one of his key lawyers would later say , it was apparent that " in a general way and with the help of deep throat , ( woodward and bernstein ) figured out watergate . " .
felt died thursday at his home in santa rosa , calif .
he was 95 .
as the second-ranking official in the fbi , felt possessed authoritative knowledge of what came to be known as the watergate conspiracy .
felt had personally witnessed the nixon administration 's attempt to subvert the bureau 's investigation into the complex of crimes and coverups that began unraveling with a 1972 burglary of the democratic national committee 's headquarters at the watergate complex in northwest washington .
" he helped stiffen the spine of the washington post , which went out on a limb more than any other publication did , and broke stories that other outlets shunned , " said mark feldstein , a george washington university faculty member who is writing a book on nixon and the media .
" had woodward not run with it , felt had a network of connections in washington , ( other reporters ) he was talking to ... but no one knew of his connection to woodward . " .
felt , a dashing figure with a full head of silver hair and a reputation as a taskmaster , adamantly denied over the years that he was deep throat , even though nixon suspected him almost from the start .
nixon ordered interim fbi director l. patrick gray to fire felt five times .
but gray , convinced by felt 's denials , never did .
a master of bureaucratic infighting and misdirection , felt seized upon a post story that had not used him as a source .
in a bold stroke , he denounced it in an internal memo and ordered an investigation into the leak .
" expedite , " he commanded .
the next day , in a notation on another memo that passed across his desk , he pointed to a prosecutor as the source of the leak .
" i was impressed .
my guy knew his stuff , " woodward wrote in " secret man : the story of watergate 's deep throat " ( 2006 ) .
" the memo was an effective cover for him , the very best counterintelligence tradecraft .
not only had he initiated the leak inquiry , but felt appeared to have discovered the leaker . " .
felt had insisted on remaining completely anonymous , or on " deep background . " .
a post editor dubbed him " deep throat , " a bit of wordplay based on the title of a pornographic movie of the time .
the source 's existence , but not his identity , became known in woodward and bernstein 's 1974 book , " all the president 's men , " and in the subsequent movie version , in which actor hal holbrook played the charismatic but shadowy source .
it was n't until may 30 , 2005 , that felt 's family revealed his identity in an article for vanity fair magazine .
the story , written by san francisco lawyer john d. o'connor , did not make clear why felt , who was suffering from dementia , admitted his role after more than 30 years .
woodward confirmed the revelation , and the secret was finally out .
deep throat suspect found dead in hotel .
thursday 29 july 2004 08 . 23 bst .
one of the longest - running mysteries of american politics may soon be resolved after it was announced yesterday that the man many suspect of being deep throat in the watergate scandal had died .
fred larue , known as the "bagman" because he delivered payments to ensure the silence of participants in the watergate break - in , was found dead in a hotel room in biloxi , mississippi .
he was 75 .
the two washington post reporters who broke the watergate story , carl bernstein and bob woodward , have maintained that they would only reveal the identity of deep throat once he was dead .
although there have been several names advanced as deep throat , larue is one of the more likely candidates .
he was a special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who headed creep , the campaign to re - elect the president , in 1972 .
larue was at a meeting at nixon's florida holiday home at which the scheme to break into the democratic headquarters in the watergate building in washington was first mooted .
although larue insisted he was not deep throat , and that the source was a combination of several people , woodward and bernstein have insisted deep throat was one person .
larue said last year that president nixon had not been told of the plan to break into the building .
he cited his close relationship with mr mitchell to back up his claim that the president was ignorant of the plan .
larue served four and a half months in prison for his role in the watergate conspiracy , after being charged with obstructing justice .
mark felt , the mysterious " deep throat " source who helped washington post reporters bob woodward and carl bernstein crack the watergate scandal that brought down president richard nixon , has died at age 95 .
felt suffered from congestive heart failure but the exact cause of his death at home on thursday was not immediately known , said the press democrat newspaper in santa rosa , california , 55 miles ( 90 km ) north of san francisco .
in its report on felt 's death , the new york times called him " the most famous anonymous source in american history . " .
felt , the no. 2 official at the fbi when the watergate case broke , kept his role in the story a secret for 30 years .
only in 2005 , at age 91 , was his part made public in an article in vanity fair magazine written by felt 's family lawyer .
" i 'm the guy they used to call deep throat , " felt told attorney john o'connor .
for years , people had speculated and argued about the identity of " deep throat , " whose name was derived from the title of a popular pornographic movie .
vanity fair scooped woodward and bernstein , who had promised not to reveal the name of the star source of their 1974 stories until after his death .
but within a day of felt 's unveiling , woodward wrote of his relationship with felt .
woodward said he turned to felt after he and bernstein wrote about the break-in at the offices of the democratic national committee at the watergate complex in washington .
watergate 'bagman' fred larue , 75 , dies .
published : july 29 , 2004 .
frederick cheney larue , 75 , the shadowy nixon white house aide and "bagman" who delivered more than $300 , 000 in payoffs to watergate conspirators , died of coronary artery disease in a biloxi , miss . , motel room , where he lived .
his body was found by a motel maid july 27 , but harrison county , miss . , coroner gary hargrove said he believed the death occurred july 24 .
mr . larue had a history of heart problems , hargrove said .
considered one of the most mysterious men in the nixon administration , mr . larue served as a presidential aide without title , salary or mention in the white house directory .
yet he was so close to the center of power that he was one of the few present at a march 30 , 1972 , meeting at nixon's vacation home on key biscayne , fla . , at which former attorney general john mitchell discussed the planned break - in and bugging of the democratic national committee headquarters office in the watergate building .
the money for the operation came from nixon's reelection campaign funds , as did "hush money" paid to the watergate burglars and their attorneys , mr . larue later testified to the senate watergate investigative committee .
he was the first administration official to plead guilty to charges in the watergate coverup and was the last to be sentenced .
he pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice and was sentenced to one to three years , with all but six months suspended .
he served 136 days .
mr . larue came to washington in 1969 as an experienced political hand and was described in a 1972 washington post profile as a squinting , mumbling "faulknerian character , an insignificant - looking man who . . . passionately sought anonymity throughout his wheeler - dealer days . " .
he was considered the liaison between mitchell and mississippi sen . james o . eastland ( d ) , who was chairman of the senate judiciary committee and who supported nixon's judicial appointments .
mr . larue's role during nixon's 1968 election campaign was to woo southern voters .
born in athens , tex . , mr . larue was nicknamed "bubba" in his family and graduated from the university of oklahoma with a bachelor's degree in geology in 1951 .
his father , ike parsons larue , went to jail on crimes involving banking law , and upon his release , struck it rich in the oil and gas business .
the son sold one of their mississippi oil fields for a reported $30 million in 1957 , using his family's newfound wealth to become a political financier .
later that year , mr . larue shot and killed his father in a duck - hunting accident in canada .
mr . larue became active in state republican politics and served on the republican national committee from 1963 to 1968 .
he donated to barry goldwater's 1964 presidential campaign and was an early donor to nixon's 1968 campaign .
he was very close to mitchell , and after the attorney general resigned in 1972 to become campaign director of the committee to re - elect the president ( creep ) , mr . larue went with him .
after the watergate break - in , mr . larue and another aide , robert c . mardian , were put in charge of the coverup , supervising the shredding of documents and destruction of financial records .
hugh w . sloan jr . , former treasurer of the creep finance committee , said under oath that mr . larue and deputy campaign manager jeb stuart magruder told him he might have to commit perjury to protect the watergate conspiracy .
they tried to get him to agree to testify that he gave watergate burglar g . gordon liddy much less than the campaign's financial records showed .
after mr . larue pleaded guilty and served his sentence in 1973 , he returned to mississippi , where he worked in the family oil and real estate development business , his nephew william t . larue said .
the family money had dwindled by the early 1970s , after the larues lost money in the castaways , a las vegas gambling casino they bought in 1963 .
mr . larue said in 1971 , "i'm no millionaire . " .
he was one of many nixon - era figures rumored over the years to be "deep throat , " the undercover source of washington post reporters bob woodward and carl bernstein .
mr . larue denied that he was deep throat , and woodward said he will not reveal the source's name until after deep throat dies .
survivors include his wife , joyce larue of jackson , miss . ; five children ; and several grandchildren .
mark felt , watergate 's 'deep throat , ' dies at 95 .
w. mark felt , the former fbi second-in-command who revealed himself as " deep throat " 30 years after he tipped off reporters to the watergate scandal that toppled a president , has died .
he was 95 .
felt died thursday in santa rosa after suffering from congestive heart failure for several months , said family friend john d. o'connor , who wrote the 2005 vanity fair article uncovering felt 's secret .
the shadowy central figure in the one of the most gripping political dramas of the 20th century , felt insisted his alter ego be kept secret when he leaked damaging information about president richard nixon and his aides to washington post reporter bob woodward .
while some - including nixon and his aides - speculated that felt was the source who connected the white house to the june 1972 break-in at the headquarters of the democratic national committee , he steadfastly denied the accusations until finally coming forward in may 2005 .
" i 'm the guy they used to call deep throat , " felt told o'connor for the vanity fair article , creating a whirlwind of media attention .
weakened by a stroke , the man who had kept his secret for decades was n't doing much talking - he merely waved to the media from the front door of his daughter 's santa rosa home .
critics , including those who went to prison for the watergate scandal , called him a traitor for betraying the commander in chief .
supporters hailed him as a hero for blowing the whistle on a corrupt administration trying to cover up attempts to sabotage opponents .
felt grappled with his place in history , arguing with his children over whether to reveal his identity or to take his secret to the grave , o'connor said .
he agonized about what revealing his identity would do to his reputation .
would he be seen as a turncoat or a man of honor ?
" people will debate for a long time whether i did the right thing by helping woodward , " felt wrote in his 2006 memoir , " a g-man 's life : the fbi , 'deep throat ' and the struggle for honor in washington . " .
" the bottom line is that we did get the whole truth out , and is n't that what the fbi is supposed to do ? " .
ultimately , his daughter , joan , persuaded him to go public ; .
after all , woodward was sure to profit by revealing the secret after felt died .
" we could make at least enough money to pay some bills , like the debt i 've run up for the kids ' education , " she told her father , according to the vanity fair article .
" let 's do it for the family . " .
the revelation capped a washington whodunnit that spanned more than three decades and seven presidents .
it was the final mystery of watergate , the subject of the best-selling book and hit movie " all the president 's men , " which inspired a generation of college students to pursue journalism .
it was by chance that felt came to play a pivotal role in the drama .
back in 1970 , woodward struck up a conversation with felt while both were waiting in a white house hallway .
felt apparently took a liking to the young woodward , then a navy courier , and woodward kept the relationship going , treating felt as a mentor as he tried to figure out the ways of washington .
later , while woodward and partner carl bernstein relied on various unnamed sources in reporting on watergate , the man their editor dubbed " deep throat " helped to keep them on track and confirm vital information .
the post won a pulitzer prize for its watergate coverage .
within days of the burglary at watergate that launched the post 's investigative series , woodward phoned felt .
" he reminded me how he disliked phone calls at the office but said that the watergate burglary case was going to 'heat up ' for reasons he could not explain , " woodward wrote after felt was named .
" he then hung up abruptly . " .
felt helped woodward link former cia man howard hunt to the break-in .
he said the reporter could accurately write that hunt , whose name was found in the address book of one of the burglars , was a suspect .
but felt told him off the record , insisting that their relationship and felt 's identity remain secret .
worried that phones were being tapped , felt arranged clandestine meetings worthy of a spy novel .
woodward would move a flower pot with a red flag on his balcony if he needed to meet felt .
the g-man would scrawl a time to meet on page 20 of woodward 's copy of the new york times and they would rendezvous in a suburban virginia parking garage in the dead of night .
in the movie , the enduring image of deep throat - a name borrowed from a 1972 porn movie - is of a testy , chain-smoking hal holbrook telling woodward , played by robert redford , to " follow the money . " .
in a memoir published in april 2006 , felt said he saw himself as a " lone ranger " who could help derail a white house cover-up .
felt wrote that he was upset by the slow pace of the fbi investigation into the watergate break-in and believed the press could pressure the administration to cooperate .
" from the start , it was clear that senior administration officials were up to their necks in this mess , and that they would stop at nothing to sabotage our investigation , " felt wrote in his memoir .
some critics said felt , a j. edgar hoover loyalist , was bitter at being passed over when nixon appointed an fbi outsider and confidante , l. patrick gray , to lead the fbi after hoover 's death .
gray was later implicated in watergate abuses .
" we had no idea of his motivations , and even now some of his motivations are unclear , " bernstein said .
felt wrote that he was n't motivated by anger .
" it is true that i would have welcomed an appointment as fbi director when hoover died .
it is not true that i was jealous of gray , " he wrote .
felt was born in twin falls , idaho , and worked for an idaho senator during graduate school .
after law school at george washington university he spent a year at the federal trade commission .
felt joined the fbi in 1942 and worked as a nazi hunter during world war ii .
ironically , while providing crucial information to the post , felt also was assigned to ferret out the newspaper 's source .
the investigation never went anywhere , but plenty of people , including those in the white house at the time , guessed that felt , who was leading the investigation into watergate , may have been acting as a double agent .
the watergate tapes captured white house chief of staff h.r. haldeman telling nixon that felt was the source , but they were afraid to stop him .
nixon asks : " somebody in the fbi ? " .
haldeman : " yes , sir. mark felt ... .
if we move on him , he 'll go out and unload everything .
he knows everything that 's to be known in the fbi . " .
felt left the fbi in 1973 for the lecture circuit .
five years later he was indicted on charges of authorizing fbi break-ins at homes associated with suspected bombers from the 1960s radical group the weather underground .
president ronald reagan pardoned felt in 1981 while the case was on appeal - a move applauded by nixon .
woodward and bernstein said they would n't reveal the source 's identity until he or she died , and finally confirmed felt 's role only after he came forward .
o'connor said thursday his friend appeared to be at peace since the revelation .
" what i saw was a person that went from a divided personality that carried around this heavy secret to a completely integrated and glowing personality over these past few years once he let the secret out , " he said .
felt is survived by two children , joan felt and mark felt jr. , and four grandchildren .
his wife , audrey felt , died in 1984 .
fred larue , watergate figure , dies at 75 .
published : july 29 , 2004 .
frederick c . larue , a top nixon campaign official who passed money from a secret white house fund to buy the silence of the watergate burglars , died saturday at a hotel in biloxi , miss .
he was 75 .
his heart failed while he was reading a book , his son , ike larue iii , said .
he lived in biloxi and jackson , miss .
fred larue's career was intertwined with that of richard m . nixon from the time he transferred his considerable financial support to nixon from the defeated presidential candidate barry goldwater in 1964 .
he was an architect of nixon's successful strategy for capturing southern votes and then a significant participant in the watergate scandal .
mr . larue pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice in july 1973 .
he served a reduced sentence of four and a half months in federal prison in return for cooperating with prosecutors investigating the break - in at the watergate complex , which housed the headquarters of the democratic national committee , on june 17 , 1972 .
he was at the meeting in key biscayne , fla . , on march 30 , 1972 , where john n . mitchell , the former attorney general who became head of nixon's re - election campaign committee , and jeb stuart magruder , mr . mitchell's deputy , approved a "dirty tricks" campaign , including the watergate break - in .
mr . larue was also at the meeting after the break - in at which some of the same officials scurried to come up with money for the burglars .
mr . larue personally delivered payments .
nixon acknowledged his own involvement in the cover - up , but always denied advance knowledge of the break - in .
in a heated exchange with mr . magruder in 2003 , mr . larue supported nixon's claim of ignorance of the initial burglary .
mr . larue's main argument was that he had been in charge of the phone at a florida meeting of the top campaign staff where the break - in was planned and was monitoring all calls .
nixon never called , he said in an interview with the sun herald , a biloxi newspaper .
also , he said his personal relationship with mitchell was so close that mitchell would certainly have told him .
mr . larue denied suggestions that he was "deep throat , " the secret watergate source used by bob woodward in his joint coverage of the scandal with carl bernstein for the washington post .
mr . larue said he believed the secret informer was an amalgam of several people , but mr . woodward has said that it is one person and that he will reveal that person's identity after his death .
mr . larue , whose family amassed a fortune in the oil business , played an important role with nixon many years before watergate .
after contributing heavily to goldwater's losing presidential campaign in 1964 , he became a leading supporter of nixon .
in particular , he helped develop a "southern strategy" for the republicans to recapture southern states from the democrats .
after nixon's election in 1968 , mr . larue worked in the white house without title or salary .
partly through his friendship with senator james o . eastland , the mississippi democrat who was chairman of the judiciary committee , mr . larue helped to win confirmation for nixon's nominees to the federal bench .
"he was an elusive , anonymous , secret operator at the highest levels of the shattered nixon power structure , " the new york times reported in 1973 .
"he is a man of personal mystery , too - a latter - day character , it sometimes seemed , out of a southern gothic novel . " .
frederick cheney larue was born oct . 11 , 1928 , in athens , tex .
his father , ike parsons larue sr . , whom fred larue shot and killed in a canadian duck - hunting accident in 1957 , was a first cousin of sid richardson , the texas oil and ranching tycoon .
the elder mr . larue had gone to jail for banking violations and moved to mississippi to look for oil .
his company discovered the giant bolton field , which fred's generation sold for $30 million in 1967 .
fred larue spread money to local and national politicians , and , despite his shyness , acquired the nickname bubba .
he became a republican national committeeman .
in the end , mr . larue was one of the first top nixon aides to cooperate with prosecutors .
"larue had stressed that it was time for both of us to think about protecting ourselves and our families instead of continuing to worry about protecting mitchell and the president , " mr . magruder wrote in his 1974 book , "an american life : one man's road to watergate . " .
mr . larue is survived by his wife , joyce burleson larue ; his sons ike iii , of jackson , and fred jr . , of brandon , miss . ; his daughters patricia larue of arlington , tex . , leslie larue of manhattan , grace burleson larue of crystal springs , miss . ; his brother , ike jr . ; his sister , ruthie larue owen of jackson ; and nine grandchildren .
in the interview with the sun herald , mr . larue guessed that the healthy regimen of his months in prison added 10 years to his life .
"the warden let me make a badminton court out of the volleyball court , " he said .
"we had some of the best badminton players in the country . " .
mark felt , the most famous anonymous source in the history of journalism who was known to the world as " deep throat " , died yesterday aged 95 .
as the associate director of the fbi , mr felt was outraged by the nixon administration 's attempts to block its investigation of the watergate scandal which ultimately led to the resignation of president richard nixon in 1974 .
a master of counter-intelligence from his days tracking german wwii spies , he secretly helped washington post reporters bob woodward and carl bernstein pursue the story .
it was thirty four years before he finally broke cover , admitting in 2006 .
" i 'm the guy they used to call deep throat . " .
by then , he was so crippled by a stroke and alzheimer 's disease that his memory of his role in us history had almost vanished .
from the first day of the bungled 1972 break-in of the democratic national committee 's headquarters in the watergate hotel mr felt was at the heart of the fbi investigation .
the agency soon learned that the nixon administration was running an extensive spying and sabotage campaign against its political enemies .
under intense pressure from the white house to suppress its investigation , the fbi was starting to buckle .
a protagonist of the famous fbi director herbert hoover , the mr felt was already embittered for being passed over as his replacement .
when white house officials tried to block the fbi 's corruption investigation , he became infuriated with what he would call their 'switchblade mentality . ' .
a debonair man about town and incurable political gossip , mr felt was already known to mr woodward when he first reached out to him .
soon he was arranging cloak and dagger meetings with the young reporters in darkened parking garages across the potomac river .
the chain-smoking fbi-man provided an insight into the scale of the presidential scandal that was larger than anyone had imagined .
" deep throat " , the name given to him at the washington post , was a wordplay based on a well known pornographic movie and his insistence on remaining on " deep background " despite the sensational nature of his revelations .
from the outset president nixon suspected him of being the leaker and five times ordered the fbi director patrick gray to fire him .
felt 's adamant denials were convincing enough and he was never sacked .
deep throat continued to leak and on the assumption that he was being monitored he had elaborate procedures for contacting mr woodward .
when he had information to pass on , he would arrange meetings by circling the page number on page twenty of the reporter 's copy of the new york times and then drawing the hands of a clock to signal the hour .
if mr woodward wanted to see him he would simply place a red flag in a flowerpot on the balcony of his p street apartment .
over the course of the scandal , deep throat supplied crucial information for some 400 washington post stories .
the reporters went on to win a pulitzer prize , journalism 's highest accolade .
a master of the black arts of disinformation , at fbi headquarters he alighted on a newspaper story for which he was not the source and ordered an investigation to find the leaker .
he then fingered a prosecutor as the source .
mr woodward wrote in his 2006 expose , " secret man : the story of watergate 's deep throat " that " the memo was an effective cover for him , the very best counterintelligence tradecraft .
not only had he initiated the leak inquiry , but felt appeared to have discovered the leaker . " .
by then deep throat 's real identity had already been revealed in vanity fair magazine .
more than 30 years after watergate and mr woodward confirmed the revelation , finally letting his secret out .
by then mr felt was suffering from dementia and had little or no memory of his role in history .
though deep throat was a hero to the anti vietnam war movement and the left , mr felt was no liberal .
a law and order crime-fighter , he ran the agency 's " goon squad " to monitor agents in the field .
he also advised hollywood for its 1965 television series the fbi , ensuring that g-men were always shown in the most favourable light .
long after watergate he was convicted of running his own so called " black bag " burglaries of the radical weather underground movement .
he was later pardoned by president ronald reagan .
in a 1979 book , he bragged about the fbi 's bugging of the civil rights leader martin luther king and he vehemently opposed the hiring of women agents by the fbi .
watergate figure fred larue dies .
published july 28 , 2004 .
fred larue , a watergate figure and high - ranking nixon administration official who once was rumored to be deep throat , has died of natural causes .
he was 75 .
his body was discovered tuesday by a maid who entered his hotel room in biloxi , coroner gary hargrove said .
the coroner said he believes mr . larue died saturday ( july 24 , 2004 ) .
mr . larue was known as the "bagman" who delivered payoffs to keep participants in the watergate breakin quiet , and served 41 / 2 months in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
mr . larue served as special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later headed president richard nixon's re - election committee .
mr . larue was at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder in key biscayne , where the plan to break into the watergate complex allegedly was hatched .
after his political career ended in scandal , mr . larue returned to his home state of mississippi to work in his family's business .
mr . larue discounted rumors that he was deep throat , saying the mysterious source for washington post reporters bob woodward and carl bernstein was not one person , but probably a combination of people .
deep throat is dead .
the passing yesterday of w. mark felt , the man who was the infamous secret source for washington post reporters bob woodward and carl bernstein during their investigation of the watergate scandal , marks the end of a life that brought about both the good and the bad of anonymous sources in political journalism .
without felt 's information , the full scale of the nixon administration 's corruption would likely never have come to light , he would n't have resigned in disgrace , and it might have set a precedent that the president of the united states is above the law .
deep throat also gave us a new archetype in popular culture : the shadowy insider in a trench coat , calling up reporters for secret meetings in parking garages to spill the dirt , often with gravely voices and cautious looks over the shoulder .
it 's been employed in entertainment ever since , from hal holbrook 's performance as deep throat in all the president 's men , to fox mulder 's informant in the x-files , to even the caped crusader giving vicki vale the cure for the joker 's poison gas in batman .
but the downside of felt 's legacy is the increased willingness of modern day journalists to grant anonymity to sources at the drop of a fedora .
i 've been an avid reader of political news for ten years now and lost count of how many stories are attributed to someone , " who declined to be named because they were not authorized to speak on the matter , " or , " who declined to be named for fear of angering the president . " .
it 's become a lazy reporter 's default setting to allow people to talk on " deep background , " and as a result we 've slipped into a rut where accountability in government has become a rare , almost non-existent concept .
all journalists should pore over the many obits of felt today and think long and hard about their duty to the public the next time someone asks to go off the record .
frederick larue , 75 ; had key role in coverup of the watergate break - in .
july 29 , 2004 .
frederick c . larue , a mississippi oil heir who became the first person found guilty of participating in the watergate coverup and was among those rumored to be the mysterious deep throat , has died at 75 .
larue's body was found tuesday by a maid at the biloxi hotel where he was staying .
the harrison county , miss . , coroner , gary hargrove , told the associated press that larue is believed to have died saturday of natural causes .
a close friend and associate of john mitchell - - president nixon's attorney general and later his reelection campaign director - - larue became a trusted member of the administration in 1969 , even though he did not have a salary , a title or a listing in the white house directory .
described as a skillful behind - the - scenes operator , he was present at a key meeting in 1972 between mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder when the plan to break into the democratic national committee headquarters at the watergate complex in washington allegedly was approved .
larue became a central figure in the watergate coverup as the "bagman" who delivered hush money to participants in the bungled break - in .
on june 27 , 1973 , he pleaded guilty to one charge of conspiring to obstruct justice and began cooperating with prosecutors .
he served five months in federal prison .
he remained an ardent defender of nixon , speaking out as recently as last year to assail magruder's assertions in a pbs program that the president ordered the illegal entry and bugging at the watergate .
larue had experienced scandal and tragedy before he ever entered nixon's inner circle .
his father , ike parsons larue , had served jail time for banking violations .
later , in 1954 , he struck oil in mississippi .
young frederick worked in the oil field alongside other relatives for several years , until it was sold for a reported $30 million in 1967 .
that same year he shot and killed his father in a hunting accident in canada .
various reports suggest that the larues never had control of the oil fortune or that they squandered it in bad investments .
when frederick larue's name started appearing in newspapers in connection with the watergate controversy , he told a reporter that he was "no millionaire . " .
the family wealth , however , established him as a power in mississippi politics in the 1960s .
he was a major contributor to arizona republican sen . barry goldwater's failed 1964 presidential bid .
in 1967 larue became a generous friend of the nixon campaign .
when the republican national convention came around the following year , he was a key southern strategist in the nixon election drive .
in 1972 , after mitchell resigned as attorney general to head the committee to re - elect the president , known as creep , larue became a hard - core member of the "mitchell group" at creep , along with robert c . mardian and henry s . fleming .
he also worked closely with magruder , the deputy campaign manager .
they became so close that they were often referred to as one person , "magrue . " .
larue was with magruder , mitchell and mardian at a campaign stop in los angeles when the watergate burglars were arrested , on june 17 , 1972 .
g . gordon liddy , one of "the plumbers" - - the nickname for the clandestine white house operation that carried out the burglary - - phoned magruder and larue during breakfast to break the news .
magruder took the call .
"he said , 'that's gordon liddy .
he wants me to go out to some air base and talk on a secure phone , ' " larue , recalling magruder's words , told the biloxi sun herald last year .
"i said , 'go get the damned pay phone .
that's just as good , and find out what he wants . ' " .
according to magruder's testimony before the senate watergate committee - - an account reportedly confirmed by larue - - he and larue worked in lock - step with mitchell and mardian from that day forward to concoct and maintain a coverup story .
"i joined in that coverup , at least by acquiescence , " larue said in a statement after he admitted the government's charges against him .
he also joined mardian in destroying documents and financial records pertaining to the watergate operation .
additionally , larue received more than $300 , 000 in cash , which he distributed to watergate defendants and their lawyers .
james w . mccord jr . , one of the men arrested at the watergate complex , said at the time that the money was paid to ensure that all the defendants would plead guilty and remain silent .
of the seven defendants , mccord and liddy refused to plead guilty , but all were found guilty of conspiracy , burglary and wiretapping .
although the first to plead guilty in the coverup case , larue was the last defendant to be sentenced .
he served most of a six - month sentence before returning to mississippi .
he was often mentioned as among those thought to be washington post reporter bob woodward's shadowy inside source , deep throat .
other candidates included alexander haig , nixon's chief of staff and later president reagan's secretary of state ; earl j . silbert , an original watergate prosecutor ; and l . patrick gray , the acting fbi director , who lived near woodward .
larue denied the distinction , as did all the others , and conjectured that the legendary source was actually an amalgamation of figures close to the scandal .
"who . . . would it have been ? " he mused in an interview with a biloxi reporter recently .
"there were not that many people who knew the inside and out of what was going on .
i don't think it would have been magruder .
it wasn't me . " .
woodward , who said he would reveal deep throat's identity after the source died , could not be reached wednesday .
the former fbi second-in-command who revealed himself as " deep throat " 30 years after he tipped off reporters to the watergate scandal that toppled a president has died .
mark felt was 95. john d. o'connor , a family friend who wrote the 2005 vanity fair article uncovering felt 's secret , says he died thursday .
the shadowy central figure in one of the most gripping political dramas of the 20th century , felt insisted his alter ego be kept secret when he leaked damaging information about president richard nixon and his aides to the washington post .
some speculated that felt was the source who connected the white house to the june 1972 break-in at the headquarters of the democratic national committee .
he steadfastly denied the accusations until finally coming forward in may 2005 .
in the last week of november , the national archives released more than 10,000 pages of documents from the nixon presidency , among them were the urgings of past and present fbi agents and other interested citizens to appoint felt , then the no. 2 fbi official , as director .
associates described his " outstanding loyalty . " .
nixon did not take the advice .
ultimately , felt 's devastating leaks as the washington post 's secret watergate source helped undermine nixon 's presidency .
nixon , soon to be consumed by the watergate investigation , passed over career agents including felt when he selected loyalist l. patrick gray as fbi chief after the j. edgar hoover 's death in 1972 , just weeks before the watergate break-in .
gray resigned the next year because of allegations he had destroyed watergate documents .
felt 's supporters weighed in , with letters , telegrams and cards that have been in nixon 's white house files all these years .
" he has the integrity , the ability , the experience and the image to insure that our fbi will continue to deserve and maintain world esteem , " harold l. child jr. , legal attache to the embassy in japan and a 30-year fbi veteran , told nixon in an april 1973 letter .
efton a. stanfield , a former fbi special agent who was then an executive of the electrical contractors ' association , asked nixon in a telegram to turn to the career professional to replace gray .
" mr. felt is a man of outstanding loyalty , character , reputation , habits , " he said .
the " fidelity , bravery , and integrity of mr. felt are unquestioned . " .
felt himself was the lead agent in a telegram sent to the white house by a group of agents asking that a highly qualified professional be nominated .
the police chief in kodiak , alaska , made the case for felt , and so did ordinary citizens .
writing from brooklyn , n.y. , viena k. neaville told nixon that choosing felt would be good for him because , " you would be spared the tremendous aggravation to which you are subjected by so many factions . " .
nixon was spared no grief .
he eventually chose william ruckelshaus , who served at fbi only briefly .
deep throat 's identity remained a mystery until felt stepped forward in 2005 to acknowledge his clandestine role in bringing down nixon .
bob woodward of the washington post said he first spoke with felt about watergate two days after the break-in .
watergate figure fred larue , july 24 .
july 28 , 2004 .
fred larue , a high - ranking nixon administration official who served a 4 - 1 / 2 - month prison term for his role in watergate and was among those rumored to be deep throat , has died .
he was 75 .
his body was discovered tuesday , july 27 , 2004 , by a maid who entered his hotel room in biloxi , miss .
the coroner believes larue died saturday , july 24 , 2004 , of natural causes .
larue was known as the "bagman" who delivered payoffs to keep participants in the watergate break - in quiet .
he was a special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later headed president nixon's committee to re - elect the president .
larue was present at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder at nixon's vacation home in key biscayne where the plan to break in democratic headquarters at the watergate complex allegedly was hatched .
larue always said he advised against the burglary .
he also discounted rumors he was deep throat .
mark felt , fbi official who became 'deep throat , ' dead at 95 .
w. mark felt , who was the no. 2 official at the fbi when he helped bring down president richard m. nixon by resisting the watergate cover-up and becoming deep throat , the most famous anonymous source in american history , died on thursday .
he was 95 and lived in santa rosa .
his death was confirmed by rob jones , his grandson .
in 2005 , felt revealed that he was the source who had secretly supplied bob woodward of the washington post with crucial leads in the watergate affair in the early nineteen seventies .
his decision to unmask himself , in an article in vanity fair , ended a guessing game that had gone on for more than 30 years .
the disclosure even surprised woodward and his partner on the watergate story , carl bernstein .
they had kept their promise not to reveal his identity until after his death .
indeed , woodward was so scrupulous about shielding felt that he did not introduce him to bernstein until this year , 36 years after they cracked the scandal .
the three met for two hours one afternoon in november in santa rosa , where felt had retired .
the reporters likened it to a family reunion .
felt played a dual role in nixon 's downfall .
as a secret informant , he kept the story alive in the press .
as associate director of the fbi , he fought the president 's efforts to obstruct the fbi 's investigation of the watergate break-in .
felt later said he believed that nixon had been misusing the fbi for political advantage .
he knew that nixon wanted the watergate affair to vanish .
he knew that the white house had ordered the cia to tell the bureau , on grounds of national security , to stand down in its felony investigation of the june 1972 break-in .
he saw that order as an effort to obstruct justice , and he rejected it .
that resistance led indirectly to nixon 's resignation .
passed up for promotion .
felt had expected to be named to succeed j. edgar hoover , who had run the bureau for 48 years and died in may 1972 .
the president instead chose a politically loyal justice department official , l. patrick gray , who later followed orders from the white house to destroy documents in the case .
the choice infuriated felt .
he later wrote that the president " wanted a politician in j. edgar hoover 's position who would convert the bureau into an adjunct of the white house machine . " .
hoover had sworn off break-ins without warrants - " black bag jobs , " he called them - in 1966 , after carrying them out at the fbi for four decades .
the nixon white house hired its own operatives to steal information , plant eavesdropping equipment and hunt down the sources of leaks .
the watergate break-in took place six weeks after hoover died .
while watergate was seething , felt authorized nine illegal break-ins at the homes of friends and relatives of members of the weather underground , a violent left-wing splinter group .
the people he chose as targets had committed no crimes .
the fbi had no search warrants .
he later said he ordered the break-ins because he felt national security required it .
in a criminal trial , felt was convicted in november 1980 of conspiring to violate the constitutional rights of americans .
nixon , who had denounced him in private for leaking watergate secrets , testified on his behalf .
called by the prosecution , he told the jury that presidents and by extension their officers had an inherent right to conduct illegal searches in the name of national security .
" as deep throat , felt helped establish the principle that our highest government officials are subject to the constitution and the laws of the land , " the prosecutor , john w. nields , wrote in the washington post in 2005 .
" yet when it came to the weather underground bag jobs , he seems not to have been aware that this same principle applied to him . " .
seven months after the conviction , president ronald reagan pardoned felt .
then 67 , felt celebrated the decision as one of great symbolic value .
" this is going to be the biggest shot in the arm for the intelligence community for a long time , " he said .
after the pardon , nixon sent him a congratulatory bottle of champagne .
felt then disappeared from public view for a quarter of a century , denying unequivocally , time and again , that he had been deep throat .
it was a lie he told to serve what he believed to be a higher truth .
william mark felt was born in twin falls , idaho , on aug. 17 , 1913 .
after graduating from the university of idaho , he was drawn to public service in washington and went to work for sen. james p. pope , d-idaho .
in 1938 , he married his college sweetheart , audrey robinson , in washington .
they were wed by the chaplain of the house of representatives .
she died in 1984 .
the couple had a daughter , joan , and a son , mark .
they and four grandsons survive felt .
days before pearl harbor , after earning a law degree in night classes at george washington university , felt applied to the fbi and joined it in january 1942 .
he spent most of world war ii hunting german spies .
after stints in seattle , new orleans and los angeles , hoover named him special agent in charge of the salt lake city and kansas city offices in the late nineteen fifties .
rising to high positions at the headquarters in the 1960s , he oversaw the training of fbi agents and conducted internal investigations as chief of the inspection division .
in early 1970 , while waiting in an anteroom of the west wing of the white house , felt chanced to meet a navy lieutenant delivering classified messages to the national security council staff .
the young man in dress blues was bob woodward .
by his own description fiercely ambitious and in need of adult guidance , woodward tried to wring career counseling from his elder .
he left the white house with the number to felt 's direct line at the fbi .
on july 1 , 1971 , hoover promoted felt to deputy associate director , the third in command at the headquarters , beneath hoover 's right-hand man and longtime companion , clyde a. tolson .
with both of his superiors in poor health , felt increasingly took effective command of the daily work of the fbi .
when hoover died and tolson retired , he saw his path to power cleared .
but nixon denied him , and he seethed with frustrated ambition in summer 1972 .
breaking watergate .
one evening that summer , a few weeks after the watergate break-in , woodward , then a neophyte newspaperman , knocked on felt 's door in pursuit of the story .
felt decided to cooperate with him and set up an elaborate system of espionage techniques for clandestine meetings with woodward .
if woodward needed to talk , he would move a flowerpot planted with a red flag on the balcony of his apartment on p street in washington .
if felt had a message , woodward 's home-delivered new york times would arrive with an inked circle on page 20 .
woodward would leave his apartment by the back alley that night and take one taxi to a downtown hotel , then a second to an underground parking garage in the rosslyn section of arlington , virginia .
within weeks , felt steered the post to a story establishing that the watergate break-in was part of " a massive campaign of political spying and sabotage " directed by the white house .
for the next eight months , he did his best to keep the newspaper on the trail , largely by providing , on " deep background , " anonymous confirmation of facts reporters had gathered from others .
the post 's managing editor , howard simons , gave him his famous pseudonym , taken from the pornographic movie then in vogue .
millions of americans knew him only as a shadowy figure in the 1976 movie made from the watergate saga , " all the president 's men , " which made " woodward and bernstein " legends of american journalism .
in the movie , deep throat ( hal holbrook ) gives woodward ( robert redford ) probably the most famous bit of free advice in the history of investigative journalism .
it was a three-word road map to the heart of the matter : " follow the money . " .
felt never said it .
it was part of the myth that surrounded deep throat .
fred larue , watergate figure , dies at 75 .
nixon administration aide was 'bagman' in cover - up .
updated 7 / 28 / 2004 3 : 02 : 00 pm et .
fred larue , a high - ranking nixon administration official who served a prison term for his role in watergate and was among those rumored to be deep throat , has died .
he was 75 .
his body was discovered tuesday by a maid who entered his hotel room in biloxi , coroner gary hargrove said .
the coroner said he believes larue died saturday of natural causes .
larue was known as the "bagman" who delivered payoffs to keep participants in the watergate break - in quiet , and served 4 months in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
larue served as special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later headed president nixon's committee to re - elect the president .
larue was present at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder at nixon's vacation home in key biscayne , fla . , where the plan to break in democratic headquarters at the watergate complex in washington allegedly was hatched .
larue said he advised against the burglary .
deep throat connection ?
larue discounted rumors that he was deep throat , saying the mysterious source for washington post reporters bob woodward and carl bernstein on the watergate story was probably a combination of several people .
woodward says deep throat was an individual and not a composite , and promised to reveal his identity only after the source is dead .
a request for comment from woodward left with the newspaper wednesday was not immediately returned .
among the other people who have been cited as possible deep throats are earl j . silbert , an original watergate prosecutor ; alexander haig , who was nixon's chief of staff and ronald reagan's secretary of state ; l . patrick gray , the acting fbi director who lived four blocks from woodward ; and deputy white house counsel fred fielding .
all have denied it .
after his political career ended in scandal , larue returned to his home state of mississippi to work in his family's oil company and with its real estate holdings .
in an interview last summer with the sun herald newspaper , larue said magruder lied when he claimed nixon knew about the break - in .
magruder claimed nixon approved the plan in a telephone conversation with mitchell .
phone call disputed .
larue believed no such conversation occurred , saying he screened all the telephone calls on the getaway to key biscayne .
"i'm exceedingly angry about it .
i don't recall any phone call .
i don't think there was one , " he said .
if the president had approved the plan , larue believes that mitchell would have told him .
"there's absolutely no way , because of my unique relationship with john and martha mitchell , that he would not have told me that when i was in key biscayne , " larue said .
"absolutely no way .
i had dinner with the mitchells four or five times a week .
it was not just a political relationship .
it was a very personal relationship . " .
mark " deep throat " felt dead at 95 .
w. mark felt , sr. , the number 2 man at the fbi during the watergate scandal , died yesterday from alzheimer 's disease at a hospice near his home in santa rosa , california , the washington post reports .
felt was an instrumental player in the stunning downfall of president nixon , but his identity as " deep throat " -reporter bob woodard 's anonymous source for the post 's bombshell series of scoops on the watergate affair in 1972-was unknown until three years ago , when felt 's family unmasked him in the pages of vanity fair .
according to the times , even woodward was shocked at this ; .
he had gaurded the secret so zealously that even his partner carl bernstein did not meet felt until earlier this year .
felt never revealed why he leaked details on the watergate break-in and cover up to woodward , but the times obituary points out that in may 1972 feld had been passed over by nixon as edgar hoover 's successor to run the bureau .
watergate figure fred larue found dead in hotel .
posted : thursday , july 29 , 2004 .
fred larue , a high - ranking nixon administration official who served a prison term for his role in watergate and was among those rumored to be deep throat , has died .
he was 75 .
his body was discovered tuesday by a maid who entered his hotel room in biloxi , coroner gary hargrove said .
the coroner said he thinks larue died saturday of natural causes .
larue was known as the "bagman" who delivered payoffs to keep participants in the watergate break - in quiet and served 412 months in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
larue served as special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later headed president nixon's committee to re - elect the president .
larue discounted rumors that he was deep throat , saying the source for washington post reporters bob woodward and carl bernstein on the watergate story was probably a combination of people .
w. mark felt , who remained anonymous for more than three decades as the source known as " deep throat " in the 1972 watergate scandal that toppled richard nixon 's presidency , has died .
felt died at his home in santa rosa , california , thursday , the press democrat newspaper reported , citing felt 's grandson nick jones .
felt provided tips and information that guided washington post reporters bob woodward and carl bernstein as they wrote stories stemming from the bungled burglary of the democratic party national committee headquarters in 1972 .
president nixon ultimately resigned as a consequence of the white house role in the scandal and in the cover-up that followed .
the identity of felt , a former associate director at the federal bureau of investigation , remained a secret until may 2005 , when woodward and bernstein confirmed revelations published in an article in the july issue of vanity fair .
" because of his position virtually atop the chief investigative agency , his words and guidance had immense , at times even staggering , authority , " woodward said in an article in the washington post on june 2 , 2005 .
the story of " deep throat , " a name borrowed from the title of a 1972 pornographic film , assumed legendary status as academics and history buffs clamored to unlock the enigma that played a role in nixon 's resignation in 1974 .
as early as october 1972 , nixon himself voiced suspicion that felt may be leaking information to the press and attorney general richard kleindienst had pressured fbi acting director l. patrick gray to fire his deputy .
felt denied his role repeatedly and stayed at the fbi until his retirement in june 1973 .
" the thing that stuns me is that the goddamn secret has lasted this long , " ben bradlee , who oversaw almost 400 stories on watergate when he was the washington post 's executive editor , said after the may 2005 revelations .
although he knew the paper 's source was a high-ranking government official , bradlee did n't find out felt 's name until nixon resigned .
felt was one of many people rumored to be " deep throat . " .
others included alexander haig , nixon 's white house chief of staff ; former national security adviser henry kissinger ; fred fielding , assistant to white house counsel john dean ; and george h.w. bush , the u.s. ambassador to the united nations at the time .
speculation also surrounded former u.s. supreme court chief justice william rehnquist , whose poor health coincided with unfounded reports that " deep throat " was gravely ill .
nixon aide fred larue dies at 75 .
published july 28 , 2004 .
fred larue , a high - ranking nixon administration official who served a prison term for his role in watergate and was among those rumored to be deep throat , has died .
he was 75 .
his body was discovered tuesday by a maid who entered his hotel room in biloxi , coroner gary hargrove said .
the coroner said he believes larue died saturday of natural causes .
larue was known as the "bagman" who delivered payoffs to keep participants in the watergate break - in quiet , and served 4 months in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
larue served as special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later headed president nixon's committee to re - elect the president .
larue was present at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder at nixon's vacation home in key biscayne , fla . , where the plan to break in democratic headquarters at the watergate complex in washington allegedly was hatched .
larue said he advised against the burglary .
larue discounted rumors that he was deep throat , saying the mysterious source for washington post reporters bob woodward and carl bernstein on the watergate story was probably a combination of several people .
woodward says deep throat was an individual and not a composite , and promised to reveal his identity only after the source is dead .
among the other people who have been cited as possible deep throats are earl j . silbert , an original watergate prosecutor ; alexander haig , who was nixon's chief of staff and ronald reagan's secretary of state ; l . patrick gray , the acting fbi director who lived four blocks from woodward ; and deputy white house counsel fred fielding .
all have denied it .
after his political career ended in scandal , larue returned to his home state of mississippi to work in his family's oil company and with its real estate holdings .
in an interview last summer with the sun herald newspaper , larue said magruder lied when he claimed president nixon knew about the break - in .
magruder claimed nixon approved the plan in a telephone conversation with mitchell .
larue believed no such conversation occurred , saying he screened all the telephone calls on the getaway to key biscayne .
"i'm exceedingly angry about it .
i don't recall any phone call .
i don't think there was one , " he said .
if the president had approved the plan , larue believes that mitchell would have told him .
"there's absolutely no way , because of my unique relationship with john and martha mitchell , that he would not have told me that when i was in key biscayne , " larue said .
"absolutely no way .
i had dinner with the mitchells four or five times a week .
it was not just a political relationship .
it was a very personal relationship . " .
colts clinch playoff berth with 31-24 victory against jaguars .
keiwan ratliff scored on a 35-yard interception return last night to give the indianapolis colts a 31-24 win over the jacksonville jaguars and the no. 5 seed position in the national football league playoffs .
the colts , trailing 14-0 at the start of the second quarter , scored 17 unanswered points in the fourth quarter to clinch their eighth straight win .
dallas clark scored on a one- yard pass and adam vinatieri tied the game at 24-24 with a 45-yard field goal before ratliff intercepted a david garrard pass , the only turnover of the game , for the winning touchdown .
" we were grateful for the win , " colts coach tony dungy said in a post-game broadcast interview .
" for a long time there it was in doubt . " .
peyton manning completed 29 of 34 passes for 364 yards and three touchdowns as the colts ( 11-4 ) recorded their sixth come- from-behind win this season .
" we 've overcome a lot of obstacles , " manning said .
" we just keep fighting . " .
the jaguars ( 5-10 ) opened the scoring at jacksonville stadium in the first quarter with a 28-yard pass from garrard to dennis northcutt .
garrard , who completed 28 passes for 329 yards , ran for two yards to give jacksonville a 14-0 lead in the second quarter .
manning then threw a 41-yard touchdown pass to reggie wayne before jaguars kicker josh scobee made a 44-yard field goal to give jacksonville a 17-7 halftime lead .
manning connected with dominic rhodes on a 10-yard scoring pass in the third quarter , which was countered by montell owens 's two-yard run to give the jaguars a 24-14 lead .
the colts dominated the final period .
clark collected a one-yard touchdown pass with 12 minutes , 31 seconds remaining before vinatieri tied the game and ratliff got the winning touchdown .
colts top chiefs , 20 - 13 , reach playoffs .
posted dec 23 , 2012 .
indianapolis lost a 10 - point halftime lead at kansas city , but responded down the stretch with a touchdown with 4 : 08 to go to earn a 10th victory and a playoff berth with a 20 - 13 victory .
it was not pretty , but add it up after 60 minutes and the colts will be wearing their white jerseys at least one more time this season .
a reggie wayne seven - yard touchdown reception with just more than four minutes remaining gave the colts a 20 - 13 lead at kansas city , and the defense made it hold up as the 10th win for indianapolis ( 10 - 5 ) clinched a playoff berth .
the colts jumped out to a 13 - 3 halftime lead thanks to cornerback darius butler returning an interception 32 yards for a touchdown early in the first quarter .
it was butler " s second interception returned for a touchdown this year , and the score tied a colts club record with a total of four on the season .
any chance for a second half without drama quickly was put to rest as the chiefs ( 2 - 13 ) came out and tied the game with 6 : 00 minutes remaining in the third quarter .
jamaal charles cut into the deficit on the first play of the half with an 86 - yard touchdown run , the longest rush allowed in franchise history .
ryan succop hit a 47 - yard field goal moments later to tie the game .
with the offense struggling to sustain drives , it was the indianapolis defense that stood tall with a stand .
the chiefs were stuffed on a fourth - and - one in colts territory early in the fourth quarter , and the momentum carried over to offensive side of the ball .
the colts embarked on a 13 - play , 73 - yard drive that was capped off when quarterback andrew luck found wayne in the back of the end zone for the game - winning score .
for the season , the colts were 4 - 4 on the road and moved their record to 9 - 1 in one - possession games .
luck also set an nfl rookie record for a season with 4 , 183 passing yards .
defensively , the colts forced three turnovers , with inside linebacker pat angerer causing a fumble in the first half .
cornerback vontae davis recorded his first interception in a colts uniform in the third quarter , thwarting another chiefs drive in indianapolis territory .
bruce arians tied an nfl record with nine wins as an interim head coach .
arians tied the marks set by hamp pool of the rams in 1952 and wally lemm of houston in 1961 .
indianapolis will close out the regular season next sunday when the houston texans ( 12 - 3 ) head to lucas oil stadium .
manning picks apart jaguars .
peyton manning was nearly perfect , exactly what the indianapolis colts needed to overcome all the emotion the jacksonville jaguars got from richard collier 's return .
manning completed his first 17 passes , picked apart jacksonville 's secondary and led the colts to their eighth consecutive win and seventh straight playoff berth .
manning threw for 364 yards and three touchdowns , and the visiting colts secured the no. 5 seed in the afc playoffs with a 31-24 victory over the jaguars on thursday night .
they won without receiver marvin harrison ( hamstring ) , running back joseph addai ( shoulder ) and linebacker gary brackett ( leg ) .
the jaguars ( 5-10 ) lost for the seventh time in the past nine games and fell to 2-6 at home this season .
this one may have been more emotionally draining than any of the others .
collier , a 6-foot-7 offensive linemen paralyzed from the waist down following a shooting in early september , returned to the field for the first time and was recognized during pregame ceremonies .
he drove onto the field , sat next to his teammates during the national anthem and then headed to midfield as an honorary team captain for the coin toss .
" it 's a bittersweet moment , " collier said .
" i 'm here now , but i 'm not a player anymore .
but it 's also great with all the love that 's been shown from everybody .
it was like i 'm back at home .
everybody showed me love .
it was good . " .
adam " pacman " jones says the herniated disk in his neck that forced him to miss dallas ' last game was bothering him even before he took a hard hit .
jones was injured in the first quarter two sundays ago at pittsburgh in his first game after a six-week suspension for violating the league 's personal conduct policy .
he finished that game , but tests showed a herniated disk and there was talk of shutting him down for the season .
the short conversation at his locker made for jones ' first public comments since before the alcohol-related scuffle with one of his bodyguards oct. 7 that led to his suspension .
after not playing sunday night against the new york giants , jones returned to practice this week after doctors re-evaluated his condition .
he is expected to start at cornerback and return kicks saturday night against baltimore .
wide receiver anquan boldin and running back j.j. arrington could be sidelined at new england on sunday because of injuries .
boldin has a shoulder injury .
arrington has a sore knee .
they both sat out practice wednesday and thursday .
tarvaris jackson has reclaimed his starting spot at quarterback for minnesota .
coach brad childress said the decision has nothing to do with the health of gus frerotte and everything to do with the way jackson has played the last two weeks .
the vikings need a victory or a chicago loss in the final two weeks to wrap up their first division title since 2000 .
st. louis placed wide receiver and kick returner derek stanley and linebacker gary stills on injured reserve .
stanley tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in sunday 's loss to seattle and is expected to be out six to eight months after surgery .
stills had been playing with bone chips in his left knee and is scheduled to have surgery today .
pro bowl cornerback cortland finnegan was fined $ 25,000 by the nfl for two hard hits on houston quarterback matt schaub last weekend .
indianapolis colts clinch playoff berth with win over kansas city chiefs .
december 23 , 2012 .
going into week 16 , the indianapolis colts controlled their own destiny of making it to post - season play .
the colts could clinch a playoff berth with a win over the kansas city chiefs or a pittsburgh steelers loss .
as they have done all season , the colts refused to let their fate be decided by anyone other than themselves .
the young team fought hard to defeat the chiefs in another fourth quarter victory , 20 - 13 .
although they started the game with a three - and - out , the colts were able to light up the scoreboard first .
corner back darius butler intercepted brady quinn for a 32 yard defensive touchdown .
this was butler's second pick - six of the season , his first against the jacksonville jaguars .
the colts defense was able to keep the chiefs out of the end zone in the first half .
throughout the game , the chiefs defense and running game posed a serious threat to the colts shot at the playoffs .
the chiefs rushed for over 350 yards giving their two leading running backs over 100 yards each .
jamaal charles rushed for 226 yards while peyton hillis added 101 .
kansas city emerged from the locker room with an extra burst of energy .
charles kicked off the second half with an 86 yard rushing touchdown .
despite their intimidating numbers on the ground , the chiefs were not able to find any consistency in their passing game .
aside from charles' second quarter score , kansas city failed to find themselves in the end zone .
a ryan succop field goal tied the game at 13 late in the third quarter .
after failing to convert on a crucial fourth down , the chiefs gave the colts possession early in the fourth .
as they have done a number of times in the fourth quarter , the colts capitalized on this opportunity .
andrew luck completed his first and only touchdown pass of the day to reggie wayne , putting the colts up once again .
in the end , the colts held on to their 20 - 13 lead , winning the game and securing a spot in the playoffs .
the colts now will end the season with a double digit number in the win column , five times as many as last season .
indianapolis' head coach chuck pagano , is expected to rejoin his team just as they prepare for the post - season .
pagano has proven to be a source of motivation and inspiration to the colts this season .
the odds may be stacked against them , the colts certainly have what it takes to make the unbelievable happen .
they have overcome a number of obstacles this season , far surpassing any expectations placed upon them .
the colts will face their division rivals , the houston texans , at home in indianapolis for their final game of the regular season .
the colts were defeated by the texans in week 14 .
with a clinched playoff berth , the colts can focus on how they will match up against a playoff - caliber team before wildcard weekend .
chiefs lose 20 - 13 to colts despite charles " 226 yards rushing .
december 23 , 2012 .
on a day when the kansas city chiefs rushed for the 3rd - most yards in franchise history and the defense played well for 55 minutes of the game , the chiefs lost to the indianapolis colts , 20 - 13 , and kept their grip on the #1 pick in the 2013 nfl draft .
by beating the chiefs , indianapolis " record rose to 9 - 5 and they locked up a playoff spot just one season after posting the worst record in the nfl in 2011 -- a chiefs - like 2 - 14 mark .
meanwhile , the chiefs lost their 13th game of the season and could tie the franchise mark of 14 losses next week in denver against peyton manning and the broncos .
the 2008 chiefs ended the season with a 2 - 14 record .
on the only positive note for the game , the chiefs had two players rush for over 100 yards apiece --something that hasn " t happened to the franchise since 1991 .
jamaal charles ( 226 yards ) and peyton hillis ( 101 yards ) led a powerful attack that , for any team other than the 2012 chiefs , would have nearly guaranteed a victory .
kc ended the game with 352 net yards rushing .
the 1961 dallas texans rushed for 398 yards against houston ( 10 / 1 / 61 ) and the " 66 squad gained 380 yards rushing against denver ( 10 / 23 / 66 ) .
but this year " s team was undone again by three turnovers , a missed field goal , and untimely penalties that wiped out scoring drives .
brady quinn threw two interceptions , both of which had a devastating effect on the chiefs .
the first occurred on kansas city " s opening drive when quinn threw behind receiver dexter mccluster and colts cornerback , darius butler , picked it off and returned it 32 yards for a touchdown , putting indy up 7 - 0 .
quinn " s second interception of the game came at a crucial point in the 4th quarter with the team trailing 13 - 10 and with the ball at the indy 14 - yard line .
quinn underthrew a pass in the end zone to receiver jon baldwin and was picked off by vontae davis for an indianapolis touchback .
yet another potential scoring opportunity blown for the chiefs .
quinn threw a third interception -- and his second to davis in consecutive series -- but it was overturned when davis was called for pass interference .
any honest chiefs fan would say that it was the most " phantom " interference penalty ever as davis never appeared to touch kc receiver jamar newsome .
kicker ryan succop showed his jekyll / hyde nature in the first quarter by nailing a 47 - yard field goal that looked good the moment he kicked it , but then missing a 43 - yarder that would have made the score 7 - 6 .
towards the end of the first half , charles made his only mistake of the day by fumbling at the indianapolis 16 - yard line , snuffing out another scoring opportunity with the chiefs behind 10 - 3 .
the colts turned the fumble into another field goal and went into halftime leading kc , 13 - 3 .
as the second half opened , the chiefs looked like they were going to go into self - destruct mode again when return man , devon wylie , inexplicably tried to return the second - half kickoff from deep in his own end zone and was swarmed under at the 14 - yard line by indy .
the few chiefs fans remaining in the stands undoubtedly thought about going home early and getting a head start on dinner .
( personal note : somebody on the special teams " coaching staff needs to put leg chains on wylie , who apparently thinks he is former all - pro return man , dante hall .
wylie brings out every kick and more often than not , doesn " t get the ball back to the 20 - yard line . ) .
but , showing why he is the best player on the team , charles took a handoff around the left end and with some terrific downfield blocking by baldwin , romped 86 yards for the chiefs first touchdown in nine quarters of football -- ironically since charles " 80 - yard td run on the opening play of the cleveland game two weeks ago .
colts -- 13 , chiefs -- 10 and a new ballgame .
both defenses tightened up in the second half , but the key play of the game came with 10 minutes left in the fourth quarter and the score tied 13 - 13 .
the chiefs faced a 4th - and - inches at the indy 27 - yd line , but despite having hillis and charles in the backfield , coaches romeo crennel and offensive coordinator brian daboll decided to have quinn try a quarterback sneak .
quinn was stopped short and the colts took the ball over on downs .
it was here that chiefs fans could see what might have been had they had this awful season last year when colts qb andrew luck was the top prize of the draft .
luck had struggled all day long under pressure from the chiefs defense and the rookie looked very ordinary .
however , when it counted , he looked like joe montana .
luck calmly led the colts on a 13 - play drive that culminated in a laser - like td throw to reggie wayne that put the colts up 20 - 13 .
i say that chiefs fans could only dream of having luck because if there was ever an indictment of the chiefs qb situation , it came on the next series of downs .
with four minutes left in the game , wylie again brought the kick - off out of the end zone and was tackled at the 10 - yard line .
( seriously ... somebody cut him now . ) .
with 90 yards to go and two time outs ( plus the two - minute warning ) in their pocket the chiefs put a big red ribbon on this turd of a season for fans by running the following " game - winning " plays .
1st - and - 10 -- quinn pass incomplete short right to steve maneri .
2nd - and - 10 -- jamaal charles up middle for 2 yards .
3rd - and - 8 -- ( shotgun formation ) peyton hillis around right end for - 2 yards .
4th - and - 10 -- dustin colquitt punt .
so on a day when at least nine nfl quarterbacks threw for 300 yards or more ( and three threw for 400+ ) , the chiefs wouldn " t let their #1 quarterback attempt to win a game with his arm .
one could only assume it " s because the odds of jamaal charles ripping off another 90 - yard run was more likely than any of the stiffs playing qb for the chiefs leading a game - winning drive .
then , like the grinch that really wanted to screw the fans' holidays , the defense couldn " t stop the colts offense as indy easily picked up a first down and ran out the clock .
luckily for kc fans , the final indignities of the season will end next week when the free agent qb that infamously spurned the chiefs , peyton manning , leads his 12 - 3 broncos against kc in what may be romeo crennel and scott pioli " s last games with the chiefs .
manning and the broncos have a legitimate shot at getting the #1 seed in the afc for the playoffs , so they won't be resting anyone for the last game .
well , at least not until denver is up by four touchdowns , which may be halftime .
chiefs lose 20 - 13 to a fourth quarter indianapolis colt stampede .
sunday 23 dec 2012 .
the kansas city chiefs lost possibly the best game they " ve played this season .
they lost to a fourth quarter colt stampede 20 - 13 .
this time it was coach romeo crennel " s fault .
there they were on the colts 27 - yard line with inches to go for a first down and crennel decides to go for it .
he should have played it safe with a field goal .
they blew it on a quarterback sneak .
the score was tied 13 - 13 .
they handed the ball over to the colts at the 27 - yard line and the colts took it back down the field for a fourth quarter touchdown and won the game .
this was a game that saw a great performance by their running backs jamaal charles and former razorback peyton hillis .
charles turned in a 86 - yard touchdown run and rushed for a total of 226 yards and hillis rushed for more than a hundred yards .
put it all together and the chiefs gained 507 yards and still managed -- through penalties , interceptions and fumbles -- to lose the game .
astounding !
this gave the colts a 9 - 5 season and eligibility for the playoffs .
i guess it " s possible to put together a team that so consistently shoots itself in the foot , but the chiefs are an incredible collection of screwups with a few brilliant players who come out every week and make it look like it might be a football team .
but are usually thwarted by the goofups ; some must come off that field shaking their heads and fondering in frustration .
this is the chiefs " last home game of the season , and it would have been nice if they could have won it .
oh well , next week they journey to denver to take on the broncos in their mile high city with their rarified air .
denver is not going to be a pushover .
the broncos are 12 - 3 for the season after defeating the cleveland browns 34 - 12 sunday .
denver is up for the number one seed and the chiefs down in the basement with a 2 - 13 season .
hope springs eternal . . . .
peyton manning was nearly perfect , which was exactly what the indianapolis colts needed thursday night to overcome the emotion the jacksonville jaguars showed with richard collier 's return .
analysis and discussion of the n.f.l. on the new york times pro football blog .
manning threw for 364 yards and three touchdowns , helping the colts secure the no. 5 seed in the american football conference playoffs with a 31-24 victory over the jaguars in jacksonville , fla .
collier , a jaguars tackle , was paralyzed below the waist after he was shot in early september .
manning completed his first 17 passes in leading the colts to their eighth consecutive victory and seventh straight playoff berth .
indianapolis ( 11-4 ) took its first lead of the game when keiwan ratliff intercepted a pass from david garrard and returned it 35 yards for a touchdown and a 31-24 lead with 4 minutes 48 seconds remaining .
the jaguars had two chances to tie the score , but both drives ended with sacks .
garrard drove jacksonville to the 7-yard line with 29 seconds remaining , but maurice jones-drew sprained his knee on a reception , and since the jaguars had no timeouts , 10 seconds ran off .
garrard misfired on first down , then got sacked by dwight freeney to end the game .
the colts overcame a 14-0 deficit in the second quarter and a 24-14 deficit early in the fourth .
they won without receiver marvin harrison ( hamstring ) , running back joseph addai ( shoulder ) and linebacker gary brackett ( leg ) .
two more rams out st. louis lost two more players for the rest of the season , placing wide receiver and kick returner derek stanley and linebacker gary stills on injured reserve .
the moves brought to 12 the number of rams players on injured reserve .
stanley tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in sunday 's loss to seattle and was expected to be out six to eight months after surgery .
stills had been playing with bone chips in his left knee and was scheduled to have surgery on friday .
offensive tackle jonathan scott was signed by buffalo to fill the roster spot left open after defensive end aaron schobel was placed on injured reserve last week .
scott had six starts in 20 appearances over two seasons with the lions .
dallas cowboys quarterback tony romo said he did not anticipate any problem being ready for the next game , even in a shortened week .
romo said he would be ready saturday night when dallas plays its texas stadium finale against the baltimore ravens .
running back marion barber did not practice thursday and was considered a game-time decision , as he was a week ago when he had only 2 yards on 8 carries .
barber has been hampered by a broken pinkie toe that forced him to miss a game .
tarvaris jackson has reclaimed his starting spot at quarterback for minnesota .
coach brad childress said the decision has nothing to do with the health of gus frerotte and everything to do with the way jackson has played the last two weeks .
jackson , who was benched after losses to green bay and indianapolis to start the season , now finds himself leading the vikings ( 9-5 ) into a crucial game with atlanta on sunday .
a win would give the vikings their first n.f.c. north title .
colts beat chiefs 20 - 13 to clinch playoff berth .
december 23 , 2012 6 : 11 pm .
the expectations placed upon andrew luck almost seemed unfair .
being the heir to peyton manning in indianapolis is heady stuff for a rookie taking the reins of a franchise that won two games last season .
now , after guiding the colts back to the playoffs - and breaking cam newton's single - season passing record for a first - year player - it's safe to say luck exceeded just about all of them .
luck threw for 205 yards sunday , and his 7 - yard touchdown pass to reggie wayne on third - and - goal late in the fourth quarter gave the colts a 20 - 13 victory over the kansas city chiefs .
that put them into the playoffs without worrying about anybody else .
"would we have done it without him ? " colts interim coach bruce arians asked .
"no . " .
luck broke newton's record of 4 , 051 yards passing in the second quarter .
but it was extending his own rookie record for fourth - quarter comebacks to seven was more important .
the chiefs had rallied behind jamaal charles' 226 yards rushing to tie the game 13 - 13 heading into the fourth quarter .
the colts' defense stuffed quarterback brady quinn on fourth - and - inches to give luck a chance .
that's all he needed .
after a miserable stretch in which he connected on 1 of 13 passes , the fabulous freshman calmly led indianapolis ( 10 - 5 ) downfield .
he completed a key pass to t . y . hilton on third down and made two nice throws to wayne before hitting the veteran in the back of the end zone .
"we had so many opportunities all game , especially on third down , that we squandered , " wayne said .
"we wanted to get that done .
that was the opportune time to do it . " .
darius butler returned an interception 32 yards for the colts' other touchdown , helping them join the 2008 miami dolphins as the only teams to win at least 10 games after losing 14 or more the previous season .
most of those wins have come under arians , who has filled in admirably while chuck pagano underwent treatment for leukemia .
pagano is expected to rejoin the colts this week .
"mission accomplished .
that's all i can say , " arians said .
"without getting emotional again , knowing that ( pagano ) is going to be back monday , the work week shouldn't be as stressful . " .
charles' big day included an 86 - yard touchdown run on the first play of the second half .
it was his second 200 - yard game of the season , and came one week after he managed 10 yards on nine carries against oakland .
"it was fun today , competing out there and doing it while we were trying to come back , " charles said .
"it was fun going out there and putting out a performance like that . " .
charles joined the titans' chris johnson and former lions great barry sanders as the only players with three runs of 80 or more yards in a season .
his third career 200 - yard game also set a franchise record , which he had shared with larry johnson .
peyton hillis added 101 yards on the ground for the chiefs ( 2 - 13 ) , who had 352 yards rushing in a losing effort - the first time that's happened in nfl history .
a big reason why was quinn , who was just 10 of 22 for 162 yards with two interceptions .
"this game was without a doubt , 100 percent on my shoulders , " he said .
"you can't play the way i played today and win a football game . " .
his trouble began with the chiefs' fifth offensive play , when he threw woefully behind dexter mccluster - who wasn't even looking for the ball .
butler picked off the pass in stride , taking it untouched to the end zone for a 7 - 0 lead .
kansas city managed a field goal by ryan succop , but he missed his next try and the colts went the other direction to set up the first of adam vinatieri's two field goals .
charles fumbled in the red zone later in the second quarter , and the colts moved into vinatieri's range for a 36 - yard field goal and a 13 - 3 halftime lead .
charles electrified a sparse crowd on the first play of the second half .
he angled to the left and then found room down the sideline , cutting back toward the middle of the field and winning a foot - race with the indianapolis defense for an 86 - yard touchdown run .
the chiefs were in position to take the lead later in the third quarter , but quinn was picked off by vontae davis in the end zone .
the defense forced a three - and - out and kansas city was driving again before settling for succop's tying 47 - yard field goal .
the chiefs got the ball back again late in the fourth quarter , but quinn was stuffed on a quarterback sneak on fourth - and - inches from the indianapolis 27 .
that turned the ball over to luck , who completed an 11 - yard pass to t . y . hilton to convert a third down before he and wayne won it .
"at times it looked a little bleak , " arians said .
"guys hung in there , made plays when they had to make them .
offensively we struggled , and then put together a drive , like we have all year . " .
notes : chiefs wr terrance copper ( left knee ) and dt tyson jackson ( left foot ) left with injuries . . . .
wayne had five catches to become the fifth player in nfl history with four 100 - catch seasons .
he also became the 14th player to reach 13 , 000 yards receiving .
colts clinch playoff spot by beating jags .
quarterback peyton manning was nearly perfect as the colts beat the host jaguars , 31-24 , on thursday night .
manning completed his first 17 passes , picked apart jacksonville 's secondary and led the colts to their eighth consecutive win and seventh straight playoff berth .
the colts ( 11-4 ) secured the no. 5 seed in the afc playoffs .
wide receiver anquan boldin and running back j.j. arrington could be sidelined for sunday 's game at new england because of injuries .
offensive tackle jonathan scott was signed to fill the roster spot left open after defensive end aaron schobel was placed on injured reserve .
adam ( pacman ) jones says the herniated disk in his neck that forced him to miss the last game was bothering him even before he took a hard hit .
jones was injured in the first quarter two sundays ago at pittsburgh in his first game after a six-week suspension for violating the league 's personal conduct policy .
he finished that game , but tests showed a disk problem , and there was talk of shutting him down for the season .
pro bowl cornerback cortland finnegan has been fined $ 25,000 by the nfl for two hard hits on houston quarterback matt schaub last weekend .
finnegan told the tennessean he planned to appeal .
the rams lost two more players for the rest of the season , placing wide receiver and kick returner derek stanley and linebacker gary stills on injured reserve .
defensive end kyle vanden bosch watched practice , two days after having surgery on his groin , and said he feels better .
vanden bosch will miss the last games of the regular season because of an injury .
he expects to be back when the titans host a divisional playoff either jan. 10 or jan. 11 .
colts clinch playoff berth with 20 - 13 win in k . c .
posted on december 23 , 2012 , 4 : 42 pm edt .
the connection between quarterback andrew luck and wide receiver reggie wayne has been vital to the colts " success this season .
it paid off one more time for the game - winning play in week 16 .
luck hit wayne for a seven - yard touchdown with just over four minutes to play to break a 13 - 13 tie and put the colts on the verge of a playoff berth .
the defense forced a three - and - out and rookie running back vick ballard ran for a first down to ice the game on the next colts possession .
give the colts defense a lot of credit for this one .
darius butler " s interception return opened the scoring for them and they stuffed chiefs quarterback brady quinn short on a fourth - and - inches play early in the fourth quarter .
the colts took the ball and went 73 yards in 13 plays to set up wayne " s game - winning score .
it had not been a great day for the colts offense to that point , but they were able to come up with the drive they needed to punch their postseason ticket .
while you " re giving the defense credit , though , make sure that you " re careful to note all the chances the defense gave kansas city as well .
jamaal charles had 226 yards on 22 carries , including an 86 - yard touchdown run , and peyton hillis ran for 101 yards .
given the lack of threat posed by quinn , it " s pretty damning that the colts couldn " t keep kansas city from running the ball .
that will likely be something for chuck pagano to worry about .
the head coach is expected to return to work on monday after months away from the team battling leukemia .
fixing the run defense before the playoffs will be hard , but it " s a good problem to have after drafting first overall last april .
colts top jags to make playoffs .
the indianapolis colts will be making their seventh straight playoff appearance after securing that spot with a 31-24 win over the jacksonville jaguars last night in jacksonville .
the colts ( 11-4 ) also won their eighth straight game in defeating the jags ( 5-10 ) who raced out to an early 14-0 lead in the game .
in fact , the colts did n't take their first lead until former gator defensive back keiwan ratliff intercepted a david garrard pass and returned it for a touchdown to give the colts a 31-24 lead .
the jags drove down to the colts 7 yard line but a pass to running back maurice jones-drew was completed and he hurt his knee on the play .
the jags had no timeouts left and by injury rule at that time a 10 second clock runoff was instituted and the game ended .
colts beat chiefs 20 - 13 , clinch 5th seed in afc playoffs .
on dec 23 2012 , 5 : 03p .
andrew luck wielded his fourth quarter magic wand yet again , willing colts to victory over hapless chiefs and into the 2012 playoffs !
what a remarkable story .
too bad the game that put the 2012 indianapolis colts into the playoffs was such a dud .
but , a win is a win , and prior to the start of the 2012 regular season , very few ( if any ! ) people had the colts winning ten games and earning a post - season birth .
on sunday , in their week 16 match - up with a kansas city team some thought would be a playoff contender in 2012 , the colts took care of business and dispatched the chiefs 20 - 13 .
the key to the game was ( drrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrums rolling . . . ) turnovers !
kansas city had several .
the colts had zilcho .
two brady quinn interceptions and a boneheaded fumbled by jamaal charles were what won this game for the colts .
that , and some fourth quarter heroics by the offense , but mostly it was kc just being really , really bad .
for the second time this season , darius butler picked off a pass and returned it for a td .
in this game , he did it on kc's opening driving , scooping the ball off the turf and scampering in from 32 yards out to give the colts a 7 - 0 lead .
unfortunately , the colts offense simply could not sustain drives .
dropped passes ( i counted three ) were the bane of indy's offense early on .
because drives could not be sustained , the chiefs began to gash the colts in the running game .
kc blasted indy with 352 net rushing yards .
three hundred and fifty two !
jesus h . christ !
still , to further illustrate to you , our well - informed readers , how running the football is nearly meaningless in this league , the chiefs never led in this game despite running all over an extremely porous and injured colts defense .
part of the reason kc ran so effectively was the awful play of pat angerer , how should so obviously be on ir right now it's not even funny .
he redeemed himself a bit by forcing a critical fumble late in the second quarter , but that play was mostly the fumble - prone jamaal charles ( 3 on the season ) being careless with the ball .
still , despite three turnovers , kc managed to tie the game going itno the fourth .
then , as he has done so many times this year , andrew luck wielded his magic wand and willed the colts to victory .
the colts offense went on a 13 - play drive starting at their own 27 , ate up 6 : 05 of the clock , and capped it off with a 7 - yard touchdown pass from luck to ( who else ) reggie wayne .
ballgame .
20 - 13 .
colts win .
the colts are the second team in nfl history to make the post - season the year after posting a 2 - 14 ( or worse ) record the year prior .
andrew luck set an nfl record , throwing for 205 yards in the game , swelling his season yardage to 4 , 183 .
cam newton in 2011 had the previous record with 4 , 051 yards .
the guy who had it before cam ?
peyton manning in 1998 with 3 , 739 .
luck's fourth quarter drive was his 7th game - winning drive this season .
that's both a rookie record and an nfl record .
no qb has ever had seven game - winning drives in one year .
unbelievable .
dwayne allen also got into the record books .
he eclipsed ken dilger's franchise record for catches by a rookie tight end in one season .
allen had three catches on sunday , bringing his season total to 43 .
dilger had 42 in 1995 .
dilger's quarterback that year ?
jim harbaugh , the man who would go on to recruit andrew luck at stanford before going to to coach the san francisco 49ers .
with the win in kc , coupled with the steelers losing to the bengals 13 - 10 , all the teams in the afc playoffs are set .
also locked up is the no . 5 seed for the colts .
they will face the no . 4 seed , which could mean a trip to baltimore to face the ravens , the team chuck pagano used to coach for .
speaking of pagano , he is scheduled to return to work full - time tomorrow as the head coach after taking a leave of absence to battle leukemia .
his cancer is now in remission , and he returns to a team that is bound for the post - season .
wonderful story .
wonderful season .
couldn't ask for anything more .
well , except one thing . . .
win in the playoffs !
go colts .
precision and perfection defined colts quaterback peyton manning 's start against the jacksonville jaguars. he completed his first 17 passes .
meanwhile , inconsistency and an inability to score at the end of the game defined jaguars quarterback david garrard 's thursday night .
" it 's a 60-minute game -- he played a really good game for 3 1/2 quarters , " colts defensive back antoine bethea said .
the jaguars led for three quarters , but 17 unanswered points in the fourth did them in .
manning completed 29 of 34 passes for 364 yards and 3 touchdowns in the colts ' 31-24 victory over the jaguars at jacksonville municipal stadium .
jacksonville fell to 5-10 on its way to its first losing year since coach jack del rio 's initial season ( 5-11 ) in 2003 .
the loss ended a sordid home campaign in which the jaguars went 2-6 .
the colts ( 11-4 ) , on an eight-game winning streak , clinched a playoff berth .
tony dungy became the first coach since the 1970 merger to take his team to the playoffs in 10 consecutive years .
garrard threw for a career-high 329 yards , but late in the fourth quarter he made costly mistakes .
after scoring on four of their first five drives , including their first two , the jaguars punted to start the fourth quarter .
on their next drive , with 4:48 remaining in the game , garrard threw an interception to defensive back keiwan ratliff , who returned the pick 35 yards for a touchdown .
" it was actually man-coverage , and he made a smart play by dropping off of dennis [ northcutt ] , " garrard said .
" you never see that in man coverage .
they know we like the slant game on that down and distance and they watched tape . " .
the score gave indianapolis its first lead of the game .
garrard finished with 28 completions on 41 attempts , a touchdown and an interception .
the jaguars had one final chance to win the game , fielding a colts punt with 2:34 remaining .
but with 12 seconds left , garrard dropped back to pass and found colts defensive end dwight freeney on top of him , nine yards behind the line of scrimmage .
the sack ended the game .
" i did n't even see it coming , " garrard said .
" so i could n't use my legs to make a play . " .
for the second home game in a row , the jaguars started aggressively .
they won the coin toss , and then elected to receive , just like they did against the green bay packers on sunday .
then they scored immediately , just like they did on sunday .
on their second drive , the jaguars scored again , jumping to a 14-0 lead with a 2-yard touchdown run by garrard .
despite the colts ' passing perfection , indianapolis could n't score .
" this is a funny game , " manning said .
" we were completing some passes , but were down 14-0 .
so that dominated our thoughts . " .
in the second half , manning really went to work .
he threw two touchdown passes and set up a game-tying 45-yard field goal by adam vinatieri .
and any time the colts needed something to happen , they went to their passing game .
running plays were unreliable .
the jaguars could stop those .
the colts gained just 32 yards rushing .
but the passes baffled the jaguars ' defense , sailing at the most important times to exactly where they needed to be .
" peyton manning is a good quarterback , " jaguars safety reggie nelson said .
" he has always been good .
that 's what he does . " .
colts clinch playoff spot with 20 - 13 win over chiefs .
on dec 23 2012 , 6 : 11p .
the indianapolis colts clinched a playoff spot and the five seed in the afc playoffs with a 20 - 13 win over the kansas city chiefs on another andrew luck game - winning drive , his seventh of the season .
a year ago , the indianapolis colts were an nfl - worst 2 - 14 and did not figure to be much better this season .
but fifteen games later and the colts stand at 10 - 5 and in the playoffs as the afc's five seed .
it is the representation of an incredible sesaon that will be extended beyond just next week .
the colts got the win today , but it wasn't pretty .
in fact , according to pro football reference , it was the first time in nfl history that a team rushed for over 350 yards and lost the game .
the colts were outplayed on both sides of the ball , but when it counted andrew luck and the colts got it done .
check out some notes from the game .
andrew luck was terrible for a stretch in the game that included 10 straight incompletions .
but after that he got hot at just the right time and hit his last 6 passes of the day , capped off by a 7 - yard touchdown pass to reggie wayne in the back of the end zone for what proved to be the game winning score with four minutes left .
he ended the day 17 / 35 for 205 yards and the touchdown along with 6 carries for 21 yards .
for the second week in a row he did not turn the ball over , which is huge .
and he also set the nfl rookie record for most passing yards in a season with 4 , 051 yards - breaking cam newton's record set a year ago .
dwayne allen also set a colts rookie record for receptions by a tight end with 43 .
allen has had a tremendous rookie year .
he has a bright future ahead of him .
cassius vaughn and pat angerer both were terrible today .
there were others as well , but those two were the ones that really stuck out .
basically , however , the whole defense stunk today .
the colts gave up 507 total yards , 352 of them on the ground .
it was the worst run defense i have seen the colts play since that now infamous debacle in jacksonville in 2006 .
simply must improve .
that said , the colts won the turnover battle 3 - 0 over the chiefs .
darius butler picked off a terrible brady quinn throw and took it back 32 yards for a score .
it was butler's 4th pick of the year and the 2nd one he returned for a touchdown .
pat angerer also forced a big fumble with the chiefs in the red zone and threatening that led to 3 points for the colts before the half .
and then the 3rd turnover was a pick by vontae davis .
when you have a +3 turnover differential , you are going to win most games .
it will be huge if the colts could keep that up .
the wide receivers really didn't help out andrew luck today .
they dropped several passes ( reggie wayne included ) and failed to get open numerous other times .
while it looked like a bad game from luck , i place more of the blame on the receivers in this one .
nothing was open .
however , on the final drive , once reggie wayne started getting involved , the colts started rolling .
on the last drive he caught 3 passes for 37 yards and a touchdown .
prior to that he had caught 2 passes for 44 .
the key was that once the colts got reggie involved , good things happened .
this game was andrew luck's 7th game - winning drive of the season , tying an nfl record - not just a rookie record .
peyton manning did it twice .
incredibly , if luck leads a game winning drive next week in a very winnable game for the colts , he would have the nfl record all to himself - as a rookie .
added to that fact is that the colts are 8 - 1 in games decided by one score or less - the only loss coming in week 3 on that last - minute 80 yard touchdown pass by the jaguars after luck had led another go - ahead scoring drive late in the 4th quarter .
chuck pagano returns tomorrow .
what a moment that will be tomorrow when pagano walks into the locker room and is handed the head coaching reigns once again .
and what a moment that will be next sunday when he takes the field for the first time since week 3 .
colts nation has supported him all the way , as has the nfl .
next sunday , the division rival houston texans come to lucas oil stadium having never won in indy .
this is a game that before the season i even thought the colts would win - back when i thought they would get 7 wins all year .
they can beat the texans , and with pagano coming back , that will be a special game .
great job , bruce arians .
tremendous .
now my piece of advice to the colts - don't stop being chuckstrong .
pagano certainly won't .
harrison out against jaguars .
indianapolis colts wide receiver marvin harrison did not play in thursday night 's 31-24 win over jacksonville due to a hamstring injury .
harrison , who had n't missed a game all season , was listed as one of the inactive players .
he has 53 catches for 605 yards and five touchdowns .
he suffered the hamstring injury sunday in a victory over detroit .
the colts , winners of eight straight games , clinched a playoff spot thursday .
colts beat chiefs 20 - 13 to clinch playoff berth .
12 / 23 / 12 06 : 03 pm et est .
the expectations placed upon andrew luck almost seemed unfair .
being the heir to peyton manning in indianapolis is heady stuff for a rookie taking the reins of a franchise that won two games last season .
now , after guiding the colts back to the playoffs -- and breaking cam newton's single - season passing record for a first - year player -- it's safe to say luck exceeded just about all of them .
luck threw for 205 yards sunday , and his 7 - yard touchdown pass to reggie wayne on third - and - goal late in the fourth quarter gave the colts a 20 - 13 victory over the kansas city chiefs .
that put them into the playoffs without worrying about anybody else .
"would we have done it without him ? " colts interim coach bruce arians asked .
"no . " .
luck broke newton's record of 4 , 051 yards passing in the second quarter .
but it was extending his own rookie record for fourth - quarter comebacks to seven was more important .
the chiefs had rallied behind jamaal charles' 226 yards rushing to tie the game 13 - 13 heading into the fourth quarter .
the colts' defense stuffed quarterback brady quinn on fourth - and - inches to give luck a chance .
that's all he needed .
after a miserable stretch in which he connected on 1 of 13 passes , the fabulous freshman calmly led indianapolis ( 10 - 5 ) downfield .
he completed a key pass to t . y . hilton on third down and made two nice throws to wayne before hitting the veteran in the back of the end zone .
"we had so many opportunities all game , especially on third down , that we squandered , " wayne said .
"we wanted to get that done .
that was the opportune time to do it . " .
darius butler returned an interception 32 yards for the colts' other touchdown , helping them join the 2008 miami dolphins as the only teams to win at least 10 games after losing 14 or more the previous season .
most of those wins have come under arians , who has filled in admirably while chuck pagano underwent treatment for leukemia .
pagano is expected to rejoin the colts this week .
"mission accomplished .
that's all i can say , " arians said .
"without getting emotional again , knowing that ( pagano ) is going to be back monday , the work week shouldn't be as stressful . " .
charles' big day included an 86 - yard touchdown run on the first play of the second half .
it was his second 200 - yard game of the season , and came one week after he managed 10 yards on nine carries against oakland .
"it was fun today , competing out there and doing it while we were trying to come back , " charles said .
"it was fun going out there and putting out a performance like that . " .
charles joined the titans' chris johnson and former lions great barry sanders as the only players with three runs of 80 or more yards in a season .
his third career 200 - yard game also set a franchise record , which he had shared with larry johnson .
peyton hillis added 101 yards on the ground for the chiefs ( 2 - 13 ) , who had 352 yards rushing in a losing effort -- the first time that's happened in nfl history .
a big reason why was quinn , who was just 10 of 22 for 162 yards with two interceptions .
"this game was without a doubt , 100 percent on my shoulders , " he said .
"you can't play the way i played today and win a football game . " .
his trouble began with the chiefs' fifth offensive play , when he threw woefully behind dexter mccluster -- who wasn't even looking for the ball .
butler picked off the pass in stride , taking it untouched to the end zone for a 7 - 0 lead .
kansas city managed a field goal by ryan succop , but he missed his next try and the colts went the other direction to set up the first of adam vinatieri's two field goals .
charles fumbled in the red zone later in the second quarter , and the colts moved into vinatieri's range for a 36 - yard field goal and a 13 - 3 halftime lead .
charles electrified a sparse crowd on the first play of the second half .
he angled to the left and then found room down the sideline , cutting back toward the middle of the field and winning a foot - race with the indianapolis defense for an 86 - yard touchdown run .
the chiefs were in position to take the lead later in the third quarter , but quinn was picked off by vontae davis in the end zone .
the defense forced a three - and - out and kansas city was driving again before settling for succop's tying 47 - yard field goal .
the chiefs got the ball back again late in the fourth quarter , but quinn was stuffed on a quarterback sneak on fourth - and - inches from the indianapolis 27 .
that turned the ball over to luck , who completed an 11 - yard pass to t . y . hilton to convert a third down before he and wayne won it .
"at times it looked a little bleak , " arians said .
"guys hung in there , made plays when they had to make them .
offensively we struggled , and then put together a drive , like we have all year . " .
notes : chiefs wr terrance copper ( left knee ) and dt tyson jackson ( left foot ) left with injuries . . . .
wayne had five catches to become the fifth player in nfl history with four 100 - catch seasons .
he also became the 14th player to reach 13 , 000 yards receiving .
manning on the money , colts lock up 5th seed .
locking up the no. 5 seed in the afc playoffs , peyton manning completed 29-of-34 passes for 364 yards and three touchdowns to lead the colts over the jaguars in week 16 .
manning was feeling it tonight .
he completed his first 17 passes , all of them on the money as he methodically took the jags defense apart .
firing beautiful pass after beautiful pass , this was vintage peyton in his best game of the season -- and quite possibly the most accurate performance of his illustrious career .
manning has the indy passing game well-tuned for the playoffs , but he 's likely to close out the season on the bench next week .
if so , his late-season flourish leaves him with 3,907 yards and 26 touchdowns in 15 games. dec. 18 - 11:14 pm et .
colts beat chiefs 20 - 13 to clinch playoff berth .
dec . 24 4 : 33 am est .
andrew luck couldn't help but smile thinking about the joyous celebration taking place just down the hall , through the big metal doors marking the entrance to the colts' locker room .
even interim coach bruce arians had been dancing .
"it's a fun locker room , a great locker room , " luck said after leading indianapolis to a 20 - 13 victory over kansas city .
"you know guys are going to play hard no matter what the score , no matter what the situation , and i am very proud to be a part of a team like that . " .
a team that's headed back to the playoffs , too .
luck threw for 205 yards on sunday , breaking cam newton's single - season mark for yards by a first - year quarterback .
he also engineered the go - ahead drive late in the fourth quarter , hitting reggie wayne on third - and - goal from the kansas city 7 with just over 4 minutes remaining .
the touchdown pass finished off luck's seventh four - quarter comeback this season , and allowed the colts ( 10 - 5 ) to join the miami dolphins of 2008 as the only teams in nfl history to win at least 10 games one year after losing 14 or more .
"would we have done it without him ? " arians asked .
"no . " .
luck broke newton's record of 4 , 051 yards passing in the second quarter , and then became the fifth rookie quarterback in the super bowl era to win at least 10 games in a season .
"obviously it's nicer to be in the playoffs , " luck said , "but it's nice to have a couple records -- which i'm sure will be broken in the next year . " .
don't be quite so sure .
luck still has next sunday's game against houston to pile up numbers , and then comes a trip to the playoffs , where the colts became a mainstay under his predecessor , peyton manning .
"we didn't want to slide in the backdoor and put the extra stress on a man having to win the next game , " luck said .
"so we are very glad to be going to the postseason . " .
arians will also get a reprieve from shouldering so much of the burden .
colts coach chuck pagano , who has undergoing treatment for leukemia , plans to rejoin the team this week .
jamaal charles ran for 226 yards for the chiefs , including an 84 - yard scamper on the first play of the second half as his team rallied to forge a 13 - all tie entering the fourth quarter .
it was charles' second 200 - yard game of the season , and the third of his career , and came one week after he managed 10 yards on nine carries against oakland .
"it was fun today , competing out there and doing it while we were trying to come back , " charles said .
"it was fun going out there and putting out a performance like that . " .
charles joined the titans' chris johnson and former lions great barry sanders as the only players with three runs of 80 or more yards in a season .
peyton hillis added 101 yards on the ground for the chiefs ( 2 - 13 ) , who finished with 352 yards rushing in a losing effort .
a big reason why was brady quinn , who was just 10 of 22 for 162 yards with two interceptions through the air .
"this game was without a doubt , 100 percent on my shoulders , " quinn said .
"you can't play the way i played today and win a football game . " .
his trouble began with the chiefs' fifth offensive play , when he threw woefully behind dexter mccluster -- who wasn't even looking for the ball .
darius butler picked off the pass in stride , and took it untouched 32 yards to give the colts a 7 - 0 lead .
kansas city managed a field goal by ryan succop , but he missed his next try and the colts went the other direction to set up the first of adam vinatieri's two field goals .
charles fumbled in the red zone later in the second quarter , and the colts moved into vinatieri's range for a 36 - yard field goal and a 13 - 3 halftime lead .
charles electrified a sparse crowd on the first play of the second half .
he angled to the left and then found room down the sideline , cutting back toward the middle of the field and winning a foot - race with the indianapolis defense for an 86 - yard touchdown run .
the chiefs were in position to take the lead later in the third quarter , but quinn was picked off by vontae davis in the end zone .
the defense forced a three - and - out and kansas city was driving again before settling for succop's tying 47 - yard field goal .
the chiefs got the ball back again late in the fourth quarter , but quinn was stuffed on a quarterback sneak on fourth - and - inches from the indianapolis 27 .
that turned the ball over to luck , who completed an 11 - yard pass to t . y . hilton to convert a third down before he and wayne won it .
"at times it looked a little bleak , " arians said .
"guys hung in there , made plays when they had to make them .
offensively we struggled , and then put together a drive , like we have all year . " .
notes : chiefs wr terrance copper ( left knee ) and dt tyson jackson ( left foot ) left with injuries . . . .
wayne had five catches to become the fifth player in nfl history with four 100 - catch seasons .
he also became the 14th player to reach 13 , 000 yards receiving .
efficient peyton manning passes colts past jags .
peyton manning passed for 364 yards and three touchdowns and keiwan ratliff returned an interception 35-yards for a pick-six with just under five minutes left to carry the indianapolis colts over the jacksonville jaguars 31-24 thursday night .
manning started the game 17-for-17 to fall one completion short of the nfl record with 23 straight dating back to last sunday .
donovan mcnabb holds the record with 24 straight completions , set in 2006 .
reggie wayne got 108 yards receiving and a touchdown while dallas clark followed up his franchise-best tight end performance sunday with another strong game , finishing with 105 yards and a touchdown .
the jaguars maurice jones-drew got 20 carries for 91 yards and david garrard threw for 329 yards and a touchdown , but gave up a costly interception that provided the difference .
indianapolis ( 11-4 ) made an nfl-best fourth double-digit comeback this season to lock up the five seed in the afc with this win , their eighth straight .
the colts defense looked shaky and gave up 409 yards , but got the game-winning interception and two late fourth-quarter sacks to seal the win .
luck throws for 205 yards , 4th - quarter td as colts beat chiefs 20 - 13 to clinch playoff spot .
published december 23 , 2012 .
andrew luck threw for 205 yards to break the single - season rookie record , and his touchdown pass to reggie wayne late in the fourth quarter sunday gave the indianapolis colts a 20 - 13 win over the kansas city chiefs and a berth in the playoffs .
luck surpassed cam newton's year - old record of 4 , 051 yards passing by a rookie in the second quarter , and then came through in the closing minutes .
he marched indy to the chiefs 7 , and then found wayne in the back of the end zone on third - and - goal for the go - ahead score .
it was the seventh time luck has rallied his team to victory in the fourth quarter .
darius butler returned an interception 32 yards for a td in helping the colts ( 10 - 5 ) join the 2008 miami dolphins as the only nfl teams to win at least 10 games after losing 14 or more the previous season .
game slips away late as jaguars fall to indy .
late sacks , too much manning give colts comeback win .
the jaguars could n't make the big play and gave up the big play .
that was an all-too-familiar scenario thursday night in a frustrating 31-24 defeat to the indianapolis colts .
the jaguars battled the colts toe-to-toe for almost 55 minutes , but with the score tied 24-24 , they could n't finish off the colts .
first , keiwan ratliff fooled david garrard when he made a coverage move he had n't made all season , intercepted the pass and ran 35 yards for the touchdown .
after the teams traded punts , the jaguars advanced from their 10 to the colts 17 with 48 seconds left when garrard spiked the ball .
again , the jaguars could n't come up with the play to tie the game .
coach jack del rio had already decided to go for two and the victory if the jaguars had scored a touchdown .
on second down , maurice drew ran for 10 yards to the 7 for a first down , but suffered a bruised leg on the play and had to come out .
that caused a 10-second runoff because the jaguars were out of timeouts so they had a first down on the 7 with 17 seconds left .
garrard then threw the ball away over the head of reggie williams in the back of the end zone because he was trying to avoid an interception .
he later said he regretted not giving williams a chance to make the play .
" as i 'm releasing the ball to reggie i 'm pretty much throwing it away because the safeties are high , and then at the last second , he ( safety ) darts down to my underneath guy and i 'm thinking , he 's not even playing reggie .
those are plays you want to say , 'just give him a chance . ' .
i thought it was n't the best coverage [ to throw into ] so go to the next down , " he said .
that left the jaguars with 12 seconds left , still time for two passes in the end zone .
but garrard was sacked on second down and the clock ran out before he could call another play .
" it 's tough .
you do n't want to end the game on a sack when you 're on the seven-yard line .
it 's kind of how the season has been .
so close , so close and then a sack at the end of the game , " garrard said .
that was the difference between the colts ( 11-4 ) clinching a playoff berth with their eighth consecutive victory and the jaguars falling to 5-10 .
that means they 'll have double digit losses for the first time since they went 5-11 in del rio 's first season .
they 're now 24-23 in the regular season the last three years and finished 2-4 in the afc south for the third consecutive season .
garrard completed 28 of 41 passes for 329 yards and a touchdown and a 90.4 passer rating .
but he was n't a match for peyton manning , who completed 29 of 34 for 364 yards and three touchdowns .
of the ratliff interception , garrard said , " you do n't want to put your team in that situation where you let the guy pick it off and run it back for a touchdown .
they made a good play .
it was actually man-coverage and he made a smart play by dropping off dennis [ northcutt ] .
you never see that in man coverage and that was a smart play by him .
they know we like the slant game so on that down and distance , they watched tape .
he just made a good play . " .
ratliff , a former univerasity of florida standout , said he did n't know if garrard saw him , but got good blocking once he made the interception and scored easily .
" i thought we were going to have a shot to win the game , but we came up a little short , " del rio said .
del rio added the jaguars gave up too many " gim me " plays like reggie wayne 's 41-yard touchdown catch when he was wide open down the right sideline in the first half .
" that 's one area we 've come up short all year on , " del rio said .
" we had too many gimmes mixed in there .
that 's kind of plagued us all year . " .
the jaguars scored touchdowns on their first two drives and then tacked on a josh scobee field goal with one second left in the first half for a 17-7 lead at halftime .
dennis northcutt , who caught five passes for 127 yards against the packers last week in his first start of the season , continued to make a big difference in the passing game .
he caught five passes for 68 yards in the first half .
he wound up with eight catches for 101 yards. ratliff said he was surprised the jaguars did n't throw to northcutt more .
the jaguars got an emotional lift when offensive lineman richard collier , whose career ended when he was shot in september , visited the team wednesday night and came out for the coin toss at the start of the game .
linebacker mike peterson , probably playing his final game at municipal stadium , said he had to fight back the tears after seeing collier .
colts clinch playoff berth with 20 - 13 win over chiefs .
posted on : 3 : 35 pm , december 23 , 2012 .
despite rushing for 352 yards , the kansas city chiefs lost their home finale to the indianapolis colts at arrowhead stadium on sunday afternoon .
the colts ( 10 - 5 , 4 - 4 away ) owned the nfl " s worst record last year , and clinched a spot in the playoffs with sunday " s win .
with 4 : 08 to play in the fourth quarter , rookie quarterback andrew luck found wide receiver reggie wayne for a seven - yard touchdown pass , capping the 73 - yard game winning drive .
luck also set a new record for most single - season passing yards by a rookie in the process .
carolina panthers qb cam newton held the previous record at 4 , 051 yards .
the chiefs ( 2 - 13 , 1 - 7 home ) almost got to play the role of the grinch in chiefs red .
however , a chiefs win would " ve likely cost them the first overall pick in the 2013 nfl draft .
the chiefs are currently in line for the first overall pick , owning the tiebreaker over the jacksonville jaguars ( 2 - 13 ) .
after holding indianapolis to three and out to start the game , chiefs qb brady quinn threw a pick six to cornerback darius butler , who returned the interception 32 yards for a td .
the chiefs went on a 68 - yard drive midway through the second quarter , but the drive was halted when running back jamaal charles lost a fumble on the colts 16 - yard line .
indy led 13 - 3 at the half , but kansas city opened up the second half in a big way .
on the first play from scrimmage , charles broke off an 86 - yd td run to trim the deficit to 13 - 10 .
the chiefs went on a 67 - yd drive on their next possession , but cb vontae davis intercepted quinn " s pass in the end zone .
kicker ryan succop tied the game at 13 - 13 with a 47 - yd field goal with 10 : 03 to play in the third quarter , and it stayed that way until the colts " game winning drive in the fourth .
charles " 226 yards rushing was good for the third most in a single game in franchise history .
he also holds spots one and two on the all - time list .
rb peyton hillis rushed for 101 yards .
the chiefs racked up a total of 507 yards on offense .
the chiefs will play their season finale against the denver broncos next sunday afternoon at sports authority field at mile high .
manning guides indianapolis to eighth straight win .
peyton manning helped inspire the indianapolis colts to their eighth straight win of the season as they overcame jacksonville 31-24 on thursday to reach the play-offs .
manning finished with 29-of-34 after completing his first 17 passes and threw for 364 yards , including three touchdowns .
and manning was full of praise of the side after they fought back from 14-0 and 24-14 down to clinch a place in the play-offs as the fifth seeds in the afc .
" it was a funny game , we were completing some passes but we were down 14-0 , " manning said .
" the crowd were into it and jacksonville is always tough here at home .
" it 's been a very different season .
for us to win eight in a row , it was what we had to do , we had no choice but to do that and have a chance to get into the play-offs .
" you never take winning for granted .
it 's hard to win one game and it 's extremely hard to win eight in a row like we did . " .
the colts had looked like they would suffer their first defeat in eight games as they entered the final quarter 10 points down .
however manning 's one-yard touchdown pass to tight end dallas clark and adam vinatieri 's 45-yard field goal tied the scores .
and with just under five minutes remaining , keiwan ratliff intercepted quarterback david garrard 's pass and raced in from 35 yards out for the match-clinching touchdown .
garrard , who rushed for a score , finished with 28-of-41 for 329 yards with one touchdown and one interception for jacksonville .
and colts coach tony dungy added : " it 's been a long fight back from ( starting the year ) 3-4 .
" i like where we are right now .
peyton manning was unbelievable , and our defense made some plays in the fourth quarter when they had to . " .
colts beat chiefs 20 - 13 to clinch playoff berth .
the expectations placed upon andrew luck almost seemed unfair .
being the heir to peyton manning in indianapolis is heady stuff for a rookie taking the reins of a franchise that won two games last season .
now , after guiding the colts back to the playoffs - and breaking cam newton 's single - season passing record for a first - year player - it's safe to say luck exceeded just about all of them .
luck threw for 205 yards sunday , and his 7 - yard touchdown pass to reggie wayne on third - and - goal late in the fourth quarter gave the colts a 20 - 13 victory over the kansas city chiefs .
that put them into the playoffs without worrying about anybody else .
"would we have done it without him ? " colts interim coach bruce arians asked .
"no . " .
luck broke newton's record of 4 , 051 yards passing in the second quarter .
but it was extending his own rookie record for fourth - quarter comebacks to seven was more important .
the chiefs had rallied behind jamaal charles ' 226 yards rushing to tie the game 13 - 13 heading into the fourth quarter .
the colts' defense stuffed quarterback brady quinn on fourth - and - inches to give luck a chance .
that's all he needed .
after a miserable stretch in which he connected on 1 of 13 passes , the fabulous freshman calmly led indianapolis ( 10 - 5 ) downfield .
he completed a key pass to t . y . hilton on third down and made two nice throws to wayne before hitting the veteran in the back of the end zone .
"we had so many opportunities all game , especially on third down , that we squandered , " wayne said .
"we wanted to get that done .
that was the opportune time to do it . " .
darius butler returned an interception 32 yards for the colts' other touchdown , helping them join the 2008 miami dolphins as the only teams to win at least 10 games after losing 14 or more the previous season .
most of those wins have come under arians , who has filled in admirably while chuck pagano underwent treatment for leukemia .
pagano is expected to rejoin the colts this week .
"mission accomplished .
that's all i can say , " arians said .
"without getting emotional again , knowing that ( pagano ) is going to be back monday , the work week shouldn't be as stressful . " .
charles' big day included an 86 - yard touchdown run on the first play of the second half .
it was his second 200 - yard game of the season , and came one week after he managed 10 yards on nine carries against oakland .
"it was fun today , competing out there and doing it while we were trying to come back , " charles said .
"it was fun going out there and putting out a performance like that . " .
charles joined the titans' chris johnson and former lions great barry sanders as the only players with three runs of 80 or more yards in a season .
his third career 200 - yard game also set a franchise record , which he had shared with larry johnson .
peyton hillis added 101 yards on the ground for the chiefs ( 2 - 13 ) , who had 352 yards rushing in a losing effort - the first time that's happened in nfl history .
a big reason why was quinn , who was just 10 of 22 for 162 yards with two interceptions .
"this game was without a doubt , 100 percent on my shoulders , " he said .
"you can't play the way i played today and win a football game . " .
his trouble began with the chiefs' fifth offensive play , when he threw woefully behind dexter mccluster - who wasn't even looking for the ball .
butler picked off the pass in stride , taking it untouched to the end zone for a 7 - 0 lead .
kansas city managed a field goal by ryan succop , but he missed his next try and the colts went the other direction to set up the first of adam vinatieri 's two field goals .
charles fumbled in the red zone later in the second quarter , and the colts moved into vinatieri's range for a 36 - yard field goal and a 13 - 3 halftime lead .
charles electrified a sparse crowd on the first play of the second half .
he angled to the left and then found room down the sideline , cutting back toward the middle of the field and winning a foot - race with the indianapolis defense for an 86 - yard touchdown run .
the chiefs were in position to take the lead later in the third quarter , but quinn was picked off by vontae davis in the end zone .
the defense forced a three - and - out and kansas city was driving again before settling for succop's tying 47 - yard field goal .
the chiefs got the ball back again late in the fourth quarter , but quinn was stuffed on a quarterback sneak on fourth - and - inches from the indianapolis 27 .
that turned the ball over to luck , who completed an 11 - yard pass to t . y . hilton to convert a third down before he and wayne won it .
"at times it looked a little bleak , " arians said .
"guys hung in there , made plays when they had to make them .
offensively we struggled , and then put together a drive , like we have all year . " .
notes : chiefs wr terrance copper ( left knee ) and dt tyson jackson ( left foot ) left with injuries . . . .
wayne had five catches to become the fifth player in nfl history with four 100 - catch seasons .
he also became the 14th player to reach 13 , 000 yards receiving .
texas prisoner captured after week on the run .
7 : 15 a . m . dec . 7 , 2009 .
a convicted sex offender who was the subject of a weeklong manhunt after pulling off a daring escape during a prison transfer was captured monday after authorities received several phone tips , including one from a salesman who recognized the inmate outside his business .
a hungry , wet and barefoot arcade joseph comeaux jr . was caught in northeast houston , about 25 miles northwest of where he escaped , said alfredo perez , a spokesman for the u . s . marshals service .
comeaux , 49 , was in a wheelchair nov . 30 when he pulled a gun on two guards and fired it during a transfer from a prison unit in huntsville to one in beaumont .
the guards , who were unharmed , were forced to drive to the baytown area , where comeaux took their weapons , handcuffed them together and ran away .
comeaux was serving a sentence of life in prison for a 1998 aggravated sexual assault conviction in brazos county , northwest of houston .
he was given two extra life sentences after being convicted of stabbing his wife and another person in 1999 while she visited him in prison .
12 january 2010 @ 09 : 29 pm .
fallout continues after brazen escape .
the texas department of criminal justice has made sweeping leadership changes at a huntsville prison where an inmate managed to get a gun that he later used to escape , the agency announced tuesday .
the nov . 30 escape by arcade joseph comeaux jr . , a convicted rapist recaptured last month after eight days on the run in baytown and houston , has led to unprecedented fallout at the prison unit where he was housed , with the largest number of tdcj employees ever facing termination or disciplinary action because of a single incident , said tdcj inspector general john moriarty .
comeaux , 49 , escaped from a prison van in baytown after he pulled a gun on two tdcj officers driving him to another prison in beaumont .
he was at large until dec . 7 , when he was found shoeless , wet and hungry at a north houston business , where he asked to use the phone .
so far , 11 estelle unit employees have been recommended for termination or faced consequences related to comeaux's escape .
four of those elected to retire instead of facing disciplinary action , including the two officers who drove comeaux in the van on the day he escaped .
whitmire questioned why several prisons , including the estelle unit , stopped searching visitors two months before comeaux's escape and moved to random pat - downs .
since comeaux's jailbreak , all visitors and employees at the estelle prison unit are again subject to mandatory pat - downs , lyons said .
after more than three years and a tangled trail of frustrating legal delays , the man who killed four people in a brazen courthouse escape was sentenced saturday to prison for life without parole and hundreds of years more .
yet prosecutors who spent the last month urging jurors to sentence one of atlanta 's most notorious criminals to death were not celebrating .
" the community has spoken , " fulton county district attorney paul howard said at an emotional press conference after the sentencing of brian nichols .
" even though we are puzzled and terribly disappointed by the decision , we must accept the conclusion provided by our community . " .
it showed how difficult it is to get a capital sentence in atlanta 's fulton county , where death penalties are rare even in a state where support for capital punishment is widespread .
georgia tied for third in carrying out executions last year .
and it underscored the problems georgia prosecutors say they frequently face with the requirement that death sentences can only be returned by unanimous jury verdicts .
nichols , 37 , was found guilty last month of murdering a judge , a court reporter , a sheriff 's deputy and a federal agent in the march 2005 rampage .
after four days deliberating on whether to recommend the death penalty , the jury deadlocked at 9-3 .
nichols will likely die in prison after superior court judge james bodiford handed down the maximum prison sentence on each of 54 charges .
the deadlock devastated prosecutors , who had turned down an offer from nichols ' attorneys to plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence .
the trial has already cost more than $ 2 million , likely the most expensive in state history .
and it may not be over yet .
howard said he 's talked to the u.s. attorney about a federal death penalty trial for the federal agent 's slaying .
in the meantime , howard and some state legislative leaders said georgia 's death penalty rules should be changed .
" georgia is a conservative state , but there are pockets where it is not , " said state rep. barry fleming , a republican who led a failed bid last year to allow judges to approve death penalties even if one or two jurors voted against it .
" there are people who will attempt to nullify the law when they get on the jury . " .
the last time a fulton county jury issued a death sentence was eight years ago , and only then for a triple murderer who killed a toddler .
one factor could be race .
the county is 43 percent black , and numerous polls and surveys have found that blacks are more likely than whites to oppose capital punishment .
eight of the jurors were black .
the three who voted against the death penalty would not comment , but howard said other jurors told him the three holdouts refused to deliberate .
he said he was told that one was wearing headphones during the closed-door discussions this week .
two jurors who spoke at howard 's news conference but declined to be identified said they worked hard to try to reach a verdict .
" i believe brian nichols did not win .
in his own words , he said it 's not his dna to stay in jail , which is what he has to look forward to the rest of his life , " said christina greenway , daughter of slain court reporter julie ann brandau .
" i 'm not disappointed and i have no regrets . " .
nichols was being escorted to his trial for rape when he overpowered a deputy guarding him and stole her gun .
he burst into the courtroom and shot and killed superior court judge rowland barnes , brandau and sheriff 's deputy hoyt teasley .
he fled downtown atlanta and managed to evade hundreds of police officers searching for him overnight .
in atlanta 's posh buckhead neighborhood , he shot and killed federal agent david wilhelm at a house the agent was renovating .
death penalty experts said the nichols verdict shows there 's no telling what will happen when a jury is asked to settle a capital case .
" it 's very hard for 12 people to sit down around the table to make a decision to put another human being to death , " said stephen bright , a yale law school lecturer and a veteran capital defense attorney .
nichols , who argued he was insane when he carried out the killings , spoke for the first time in court on saturday as relatives of the victims ' families quietly wept .
" i just wanted to say that i know that the things i 've done caused a lot of pain and i 'm sorry , " he said .
" and i just wanted to say that i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life .
that 's it . " .
the judge had advice for anyone who deals with nichols in the future .
" do not trust mr. nichols ever again .
ever again .
because he can not be trusted . " .
arcade joseph comeaux jr , prison inmate , pulls gun on and handcuffs guards , runs away .
11 / 30 / 09 05 : 40 pm et .
a convicted sex offender sentenced to life in prison pulled a gun on two guards during a prison transfer monday and held them hostage temporarily before fleeing on foot in one of the guard's uniforms , authorities said .
at the time of the escape , the inmate was in a wheelchair , which he claimed he needed to help move him around , officials said .
comeaux , 49 , took the officers' weapons and handcuffed them together in the back of the vehicle before fleeing on foot at around 9 a . m . , lyons said .
he was serving a life sentence after being convicted in june 1998 of aggravated sexual assault out of brazos county , located northwest of houston .
comeaux was given two extra life sentences after being convicted for stabbing his wife and another person in 1999 while she visited him in prison .
she survived the attack .
comeaux also injured a man who was visiting another inmate at the time and tried to stop the attack .
the escape triggered a lockdown at lee college and three campuses in the goose creek school district , in and around baytown .
now that fulton county courthouse killer brian nichols has been sentenced to life without parole , one of the not yet answered questions is where the 37-year-old will serve time .
superior court judge james bodiford on saturday suggested that nichols should serve his time in the federal maximum security prison - known as supermax - in florence , colo. , which has the reputation as the nation 's toughest and most secure prison .
bodiford said he was surprised to learn during the trial that nichols , who is committed of state crimes , could still serve his time in a federal prison .
" i thought maybe supermax might be a good place for mr. nichols for what it is worth , " bodiford said .
" i do n't believe i can order it and i am not going to order it but that is my two cents worth . " .
about the prison .
the supermax unit at the florence federal correctional complex at florence , colo. , primarily holds extremely dangerous or escape-risk federal inmates .
there also are a few state prisoners there who need more security than those prisons can provide .
the remote prison , which opened in 1994 , almost disappears into the same-color desert around it .
cells are 8-by-12 feet , with concrete walls , ceilings and furnishings , including the bed .
the toilets , sinks and showers are stainless steel .
cell windows are long and narrow , limiting the view to only the sky .
some known inmates .
unabomber ted kaczynski , shoe bomber richard reid , and sept. 11 , 2001 conspirator zacarias moussaoui .
jamil abdullah al-amin , the 1960s militant once named h. rap brown , convicted in georgia of the state crime of murdering a fulton county deputy .
convicted of federal crimes in georgia : eric robert rudolph , who pleaded guilty to the centennial olympic park bombings and other bombings in atlanta , and malachi z. york , the nuwaubian leader convicted of child molestation , racketeering and federal financial reporting charges .
prison program .
a three-step program limits - or perhaps deprives - inmates of many things that would stimulate the senses - smell , sight and touch .
olympic park bomber rudolph complained in letters to a colorado newspaper in 2006 that the prison 's design was driving him insane .
in the first stage of the program , inmates spend 23 of every 24 hours double-locked behind a steel door and a barred grate .
they are allowed one 15-minute telephone call a month .
one hour each day is spent alone in a recreation area .
their behavior is reviewed every 90 days before they can be moved up to the next step .
at the second and third steps , inmates are given progressively more freedom , more time for exercise , longer and more frequent telephone calls and more social contact with other prisoners - as long as they are free of violations .
limited inmate privileges .
inmates get a radio and a black-and-white , 13-inch television made specially with clear backs that reveal all internal components .
the tvs are hooked up to " basic cable . " .
inmates participate in religious services that are broadcast on their televisions .
guards pass inmates ' meals , law books and other items through a slot in the door .
there is limited direct human contact .
convicted child molestor arcade joseph comeaux jr . on the lam in texas .
nov . 30 , 2009 .
a convicted child molester who was supposedly confined to a wheelchair overpowered two prison guards today , handcuffed them , stole their weapons and walked off wearing one of their uniforms .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , is serving a life sentence for several charges -- including indecency with a child -- and was en route from the estelle unit in huntsville , texas , to the stiles unit in beaumont , texas , when he escaped just after 9 a . m .
lyons said that comeaux used a wheelchair in prison -- he "claimed it was necessary for his mobility" -- and added , "since he fled on foot , that's obviously in question . " .
described as a 6 - feet tall and weighing approximately 200 pounds , lyons warned that comeaux knows the area where he escaped well and could have family nearby .
he initially was imprisoned on february 1979 on three 10 - year sentences for rape of a child , aggravated rape of a child , and burglary of a building with the intent to commit theft .
his supervision was revoked and he returned to prison in may 1984 with a new charge of indecency with a child , given a new 20 year sentence .
between 1991 and 1998 , comeaux was in and out of prison on parole violations until he finally returned to prison in june 1999 to serve a life sentence for aggravated sexual assault .
in 1999 , comeaux stabbed his wife during a visit , using his wheelchair to pin her against a wall while he stabbed her .
his wife survived , but another inmate who tried to break up the attack also suffered stab wounds , and comeaux was convicted of additional assault charges and received two additional life sentences .
former kutztown university football player brian nichols has received a sentence of life in prison without parole for a march 2005 shooting spree in an atlanta courthouse , according to reports .
according to reports in an atlanta newspaper .
nichols was sentenced saturday morning to seven life sentences and four sentences of life without parole plus 485 years .
nichols was being tried for rape in march 2005 when he overpowered a female sheriff 's deputy , took her gun and shot the judge in his rape trial and the court reporter .
outside the courtroom , nichols shot and killed a sheriff 's deputy sergeant .
later that day , as he attempted to elude police , he shot and killed a u.s. customs agent .
he later made it to gwinnett county where he kidnapped a woman who says she talked nichols into surrendering .
arcade joseph comeaux jr : texas child molester escaped and armed .
november 30 , 2009 at 02 : 22 pm .
texas inmate arcade joseph comeaux jr . escaped when he was being transported to a prison in beaumont from huntsville .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . is a convicted sex offender serving a life sentence .
comeaux escaped with a 12 - gauge shotgun and 2 semiautomatic pistols .
he initially was imprisoned on february 1979 on three 10 - year sentences for rape of a child , aggravated rape of a child , and burglary of a building with the intent to commit theft .
his supervision was revoked and he returned to prison in may 1984 with a new charge of indecency with a child , given a new 20 year sentence .
between 1991 and 1998 , comeaux was in and out of prison on parole violations until he finally returned to prison in june 1999 to serve a life sentence for aggravated sexual assault .
fulton courthouse killer brian nichols was sentenced saturday morning to seven life sentences and four sentences of life without parole plus 485 years for the crimes he committed on march 11 , 2005 , that stunned metro atlanta and the nation .
brian nichols was saved from a death sentence by three jurors who were determined that he instead spend his life in prison , no matter how many people he killed .
fulton county district attorney paul howard suggested saturday that the possibility of a death penalty was doomed - even before jury selection - by the three holdouts .
" i talked to two jurors and they both say that some people showed up for jury duty with their minds already made up and never entered into a meaningful discussion of a death sentence , " howard said saturday after nichols was sentenced .
" that means we did n't get a fair trial . " .
the two jurors , who indicated they were among the nine voting to put nichols to death , reported one of the holdouts even worked a crossword puzzle while the panel deliberated nichols ' fate for 40 hours over four days .
the frustrated prosecutor gambled on getting a death penalty decision when he denied a nichols offer a year ago to plead guilty in exchange for a life prison sentence .
he said saturday that he would urge georgia lawmakers to amend the law - that now requires a unanimous decision - to allow a 10-juror majority approve a death penalty .
" we 're not asking for favors - we are just asking for a level playing field , " howard said .
" people who will not deliberate should not be permitted to continue to serve on juries . " .
he was especially vexed because the holdouts were evidently not truthful when questioned by lawyers about whether they could impose the death penalty before they were chosen for the jury .
he said all the jurors swore under oath that they could consider death for nichols if they felt the crimes deserved it .
inside the jury room , however , the three holdouts told the other nine jurors that they would not impose death for any killings .
in fact , howard said , the nine pro-death jurors asked the three holdouts how many people would nichols have to kill before they would be willing to vote for execution .
" they asked , 'how about if it had been 50 people ? ' " howard said .
" and the three people said it would n't make any difference at all . " .
the two female jurors , one white and one black , spoke publicly at a news conference saturday to express their exasperation .
" i want the families to know we did everything we could do , " said the white woman , who was identified as juror no. 12 .
family members of the four murder victims expressed outrage that nichols had escaped the death penalty .
" i feel in some ways he is proud of what he did , " said deborah teasley , widow of a sheriff 's deputy nichols murdered .
" he was constantly sitting there at the defense table with a smirk on his face . " .
the two jurors , who did not give their names , said the closed-door jury deliberations never became hostile during the four days they tried to decide a penalty .
" everyone was respectful , " said juror no. 8 , one of six african-american women on the panel .
" we were able to state our opinions .
but we would not back down . " .
it was the pro-death majority , hoping to sway the three holdouts , who sought the replay of the bombshell jailhouse tape recording of nichols talking with his brother on a telephone call .
" we were searching , " juror no. 12 said .
an angry nichols was recorded saying he did n't regret the four murders and would have taken his rampage to the da 's office in the courthouse if given the chance again .
defense attorneys vehemently objected to the tape as " highly prejudicial , " though judge james bodiford said jurors could rehear just the portion played for them at trial .
in the end , the jury did not follow through with a formal written request for the tape .
the two jurors kept their public comments limited at the news conference .
other jurors contacted by the atlanta journal-constitution , including the jury foreman , declined to talk or answer questions left for them at their residences .
the jury - six black women , two white women , two black men , one white man and one asian man - began hearing the case sept. 22 and convicted nichols on nov. 7 after 12 hours of deliberation .
the trial then entered a four-week penalty phase , with prosecution witnesses testifying that nichols is still a remorseless killer plotting constantly to escape , and defense witnesses testifying he had a troubled childhood and has shown signs of remorse and redemption .
howard said the jurors in the majority told him after reporting their 9-3 deadlock to bodiford that they did not know they could have asked bodiford to replace with alternates the three who refused to deliberate with them .
on friday morning , a day after the 9-3 deadlock was first reported , prosecutor kellie hill asked bodiford to ask the jury if all of the jurors were participating in good faith .
defense lawyers objected , arguing to bodiford that any such inquiry during the penalty phase would amount to coercion - which could result in a reversal on appeal .
josh moore , one of the defense lawyers , had reminded the judge earlier that unanimity in the penalty phase was not required .
" georgia law shows no preference for a unanimous verdict in the sentencing phase of a death case , " he said .
howard said state law is murky on whether a judge could inquire or replace jurors during the penalty phase .
the law also permits each juror to follow his or her personal morality on determining whether to impose a death sentence , as long as the juror can honestly consider it .
howard said he hoped the legislature also would change the law , which permits vague responses during jury selection on whether potential jurors would be willing to impose the death penalty .
victims ' relatives said any nichols victory was hollow .
" i do n't think brian nichols won , " said christina greenway , daughter of the court reporter nichols murdered .
" in his own words , it is not in his dna to stay in prison .
now he can look forward to a life in prison . " .
nichols rose to infamy when he escaped from custody at the fulton county courthouse during his rape trial on march 11 , 2005 , by overpowering his guard , sheriff 's deputy cynthia hall , beating her so badly he left her brain-damaged and blind in one eye .
nichols then took her gun and went to the chambers of superior court judge rowland barnes , who was presiding over his trial , and took the staff captive and seized the gun of another deputy .
minutes later , he shot barnes in the back of the head while he was on the bench hearing a civil matter .
four seconds later , he shot the court reporter , julie ann brandau , in the head , killing her , also .
nichols then escaped and shot and killed deputy sgt. hoyt teasley , who had pursued him outside the courthouse .
nichols committed a series of carjackings before finally escaping downtown atlanta by taking marta to buckhead while police looked for him .
in buckhead , while in search of a hiding place , he committed other assaults before ending up that night at the house that david wilhelm was building a few blocks from lenox mall .
he shot wilhelm , an off-duty u.s. customs agent , emptied his pockets of cash and took his cellphone as he lay paralyzed , dying on the floor .
nichols stole wilhelm 's pickup truck , where he said he found wilhelm 's badge .
whether he knew wilhelm was a federal agent before he killed him could make a difference on whether federal authorities indict him and seek a death penalty in a federal court .
at trial , prosecutors contended nichols ambushed wilhelm and that he did n't have his gun drawn during the confrontation as nichols claimed .
defense lawyers contended that nichols committed the crimes because he suffered from a delusion that made him believe he was leading a slave revolt against an unjust justice system .
nichols , 37 , was an $ 80,000-a-year computer system expert at ups before his life spiraled out of control after his girlfriend of seven years dumped him for infidelity .
he took her captive and raped her in august 2004 - saying he wanted to win her back - and was arrested and spent nine months in jail before the killings .
wilhelm 's widow , candee , took aim at nichols ' parents - who had won praise from the judge as solid citizens - when she addressed the public after the sentencing .
" brian nichols ' parents raised an extremely evil person , " said wilhelm , who was briefly detained during the trial for bringing a pistol into the courthouse .
" i am extremely disappointed that the defendant has been shown the mercy that he did not show on march 11 , 2005 . " .
lead prosecutor kellie hill reminded the crowd that mercy did not equal injustice .
" justice has been served in this case - it absolutely has been , " hill said .
" sometimes we do n't understand the outcome , but we all have to accept it . " .
nichols ' mother , claritha , and father , gene , attended the trial most days for 12 weeks .
they became the focus of testimony about their son 's upbringing , and his mother testified about events leading up to his rape trial on the day he escaped and went on his killing spree .
they sat through the sentencing saturday but left the courthouse before reporters could interview them .
as she came into the courthouse before the sentencing , nichols ' mother expressed their sentiments .
" we just want to fade into obscurity , " she said .
texas prison escapee added to u . s . marshals '15 most wanted' list .
the u . s . marshals have added to their " 15 most wanted " list of fugitives a man serving three life sentences who escaped custody during his transport from huntsville , texas , to stiles , texas .
during the escape , arcade joseph comeaux , jr . allegedly produced a weapon and fired upon two correctional officers , took them hostage and forced them to drive to baytown , texas , where he restrained the officers in the back of the van , took their firearms and one of their uniforms .
comeaux " s escape is all the more surprising since authorities had mistakenly believed he was paralyzed following a stroke , and was wheelchair bound .
comeaux fled on foot following his escape .
comeaux was in prison after being convicted of aggravated sexual assault of a child and aggravated assault with a deadly weapon .
according to texas authorities , the weapons conviction stemmed from a 1999 incident where he stabbed his wife 17 times while she was visiting him in prison .
a judge in fulton county , ga . , sentenced brian nichols saturday to multiple life prison sentences for his deadly 2005 rampage at fulton courthouse .
superior court judge james bodiford sentenced nichols to seven consecutive life sentences and four sentences of life without parole for the march 11 , 2005 , incident that left four people dead , the atlanta journal-constitution reported .
" you 'll be pleased to know that i 'm not going to lecture too much this morning , " bodiford said .
" i 'm not going to express outrage and i 'm not going to express any feelings might have .
the jury has spoken and i respect the jury .
i think the jury did everything it could to come up with a unanimous sentence . " .
nichols was convicted of overpowering a sheriff 's deputy before killing superior court judge rowland barnes , court reporter julie ann brandau , sheriff 's deputy sgt. hoyt teasley and u.s. customs agent david wilhelm .
the journal-constitution said nichols , who also received an additional sentence of 485 years , offered a show of remorse before his sentence was announced saturday .
" i am sorry .
i just want to say that i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life , " the convicted killer said .
texas convict arcade joseph comeaux jr . , riding in wheelchair , pulls gun on guards , escapes on foot .
thursday , december 3 , 2009 , 9 : 36 am .
rewards totaling $30 , 000 are offered for information leading to texas prison escapee arcade joseph comeaux jr .
department of corrections spokeswoman michelle lyons said thursday that the convicted sex offender was still on the run .
comeaux was in a wheelchair monday when he pulled a gun on two guards during a transfer from a unit in huntsville to one in beaumont .
both guards were released after being forced to drive to the baytown area , where comeaux ran way .
comeaux was serving life in prison for aggravated sexual assault out of brazos county .
an atlanta judge sentenced brian nichols to life in prison saturday morning .
he 's the former kutztown university football player who went on a shooting rampage at an atlanta courthouse in 2005 , killing four people .
the jury was unable to come to a decision after 30 hours of deliberation .
the judge , by law sentenced nichols to consecutive maximum sentences on each of his charges .
while nichols did not recieve the death penalty , he will likely die in prison .
death sentences in georgia require a unanimous decision by a jury .
nichols faced more than 50 charges in the case .
he was on trial for rape in 2005 in an atlanta courtroom when he grabbed a guard 's gun , fatally shooting a judge , court reporter , sherrif 's deputy and later , a federal agent .
'armed and dangerous' texas inmate on the loose .
published november 30 , 2009 .
the texas department of criminal justice is searching for an escaped inmate who is considered armed and dangerous , myfoxhouston . com reports .
officials said arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , took two transport officers hostage on monday morning and then escaped from the vehicle and took off on foot , myfoxhouston . com reports .
comeaux , a 6 - foot , 200 - pound black male , was serving a life sentence for crimes he committed in three texas counties .
he was sentenced to life in prison for indecency with a child , aggravated sexual assault and two counts of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon , myfoxhouston . com reports .
comeaux allegedly handcuffed the officers together in the vehicle and then took off with their weapons , myfoxhouston . com reported .
a judge on saturday sentenced the man who killed four people during a brazen courthouse escape to multiple life sentences with no chance of parole , and to hundreds more years on more than 50 charges .
the man , brian g. nichols , 37 , was found guilty last month of murder and dozens of other counts in the march 2005 rampage that led from a downtown courthouse to an atlanta neighborhood and which ended with his capture the next day in a suburban county .
judge james g. bodiford of superior court handed down the maximum sentence on each charge , to run consecutively .
" if there was any more i could give you , i would , " judge bodiford said .
mr. nichols was spared multiple death sentences when the jury failed to reach a unanimous decision , as required by georgia law , recommending that punishment .
the sentence ends more than three years of efforts to bring mr. nichols to justice since his arrest , frustrating victims ' relatives and angering state legislators over the costs .
mr. nichols escaped on march 11 , 2005 , as he was being escorted to a trial for rape .
he beat a deputy guarding him and stole her gun .
he burst into the courtroom and shot and killed judge rowland barnes ; a court reporter , julie ann brandau ; and sgt. hoyt teasley , a fulton county sheriff 's deputy .
mr. nichols fled downtown atlanta and managed to evade hundreds of police officers overnight .
in the buckhead neighborhood of atlanta , he shot and killed a federal immigration and customs agent , david wilhelm , at a house the agent was renovating .
mr. nichols was captured the next day in suburban gwinnett county after a woman he took hostage , ashley smith robinson , alerted the police .
ms. smith robinson was credited with bringing a peaceful ending to the rampage by appealing to mr. nichols 's religious beliefs and giving him illegal drugs .
mr. nichols , who was raised in baltimore , confessed to the killings but said that he was legally insane and that he believed he was a slave rebelling against his masters .
prosecutors argued that he concocted the delusions to avoid the death penalty .
mr. nichols 's rampage led lawyers and judges to question their safety , and officials around the state re-examined courthouse security measures .
texas lifer escapes prison van near houston .
a texas inmate escaped from a prison van near houston after pulling a gun on two guards who were transporting him between prisons , according to a texas prison statement monday .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , ran away on foot with the guards' guns and wearing one of their gray correctional officer uniforms , the statement from the texas department of criminal justice said .
comeaux was serving a life sentence for indecency with a child , aggravated sexual assault and two counts of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon , it said .
the escape happened near baytown , texas , about 25 miles east of houston , it said .
a georgia judge handed brian nichols today four consecutive life sentences without the possibility for parole sentence today .
he was convicted of killing four people , including a judge in a court room shooting in 2005 .
a court officer was also killed outside the court and an off-duty officer the next day .
" i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life , " nichols , 37 , told the court .
" i 'm giving you the maximum -- every day i could give you , " superior court judge james bodiford said , in the same court where the killing occurred .
" if i could give you more , i would . " .
nichols was on trial for rape when on march 11 , 2005 he overpowered a guard and seized her weapon , killing in the court room judge rowland barnes and the court reporter julie ann brandau ; .
he also was convicted on killing sgt. hoyt teasley outside the courthouse and killing the next day off-duty u.s. customs agent david wilhelm .
nichols said : " i know that the things that i 've done caused a lot of pain , and i am sorry . " .
jurors deadlocked with nine in favor and three against the death sentence .
ironically nichols had offered to plead guilty in return for life behind bars but prosecutors had refused .
escape renews calls for prison agency shake - up .
november 30 , 2009 .
after facing serious questions about how 900 prohibited cell phones were smuggled into texas prisons this year , along with drugs and weapons , the texas department of criminal justice found itself on the defensive again tuesday while trying to find an inmate who escaped despite being shackled to a wheelchair .
tdcj officials could answer few questions about how convicted rapist arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , escaped monday from a prison van in baytown after pulling a gun and handcuffing two transport officers , stealing their three guns and walking away .
he remains on the loose today .
comeaux escaped monday morning as transport officers tried to move him in a tdcj van from the estelle prison unit in huntsville to the stiles unit in beaumont .
he put on one officer's gray uniform and black boots , then stole a 12 - gauge shotgun and two semi - automatic pistols before fleeing on foot , leaving his pistol behind .
a judge on saturday sentenced the man who killed four people in a brazen courthouse escape to multiple life sentences with no chance of parole after a deadlocked jury failed to return a death sentence .
brian nichols , 37 , was found guilty last month of murder and dozens of other counts for the march 2005 rampage that started in a downtown courthouse , led to an atlanta neighborhood and ended with his capture the next day in a suburban county .
he will likely die in prison after superior court judge james bodiford handed down the maximum sentence on each charge .
" if there was any more i could give you , i would , " the judge said .
nichols was spared capital punishment when the jury failed to reach a unanimous decision to condemn him to death row for the murders of a judge , a court reporter , a deputy and a federal agent .
after four days and more than 30 hours of deliberations , the jury was deadlocked at 9-3 , with nine in favor of the death penalty and three voting for life without parole .
nichols , who argued he was mentally insane when he carried out the killings , spoke for the first time in court on saturday .
" i just wanted to say that i know that the things i 've done caused a lot of pain and i 'm sorry , " he said .
" and i just wanted to say that i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life .
that 's it . " .
the sentence caps more than three years of efforts to bring nichols to justice since his arrest that were repeatedly bogged down by legal complications , frustrating victims ' relatives and angering state legislators over the costs .
the rampage prompted attorneys and judges to question their safety and law enforcement around the state to re-examine courthouse security measures .
the deadlocked jury was a setback for prosecutors , who turned down an offer from nichols ' attorneys to plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence .
but district attorney paul howard said he has spoken with u.s. attorneys about a possible death penalty trial against nichols in federal court for the killing of the off-duty federal agent .
howard also said georgia prosecutors need more leeway to strike jurors who are reluctant to vote for the death penalty .
he said jurors have told him that the three holdouts refused to deliberate and one even wore headphones during the closed-door discussions this week .
" the community has spoken , " he said .
" even though we are puzzled and terribly disappointed by the decision , we must accept the conclusion provided by our community . " .
in a tearful post-trial press conference , the families of the victims thanked the prosecutors for going through with the trial , as painful as it was .
" i believe brian nichols did not win .
in his own words , he said it 's not his dna to stay in jail , " said christina greenway , daughter of slain court reporter julie ann brandau .
" which is what he has to look forward to the rest of his life. i 'm not disappointed and i have no regrets . " .
nichols was being escorted to his trial for rape when he beat a deputy guarding him and stole her gun .
he burst into the courtroom and shot and killed superior court judge rowland barnes , brandau and deputy hoyt teasley .
he fled downtown atlanta and managed to evade hundreds of police officers searching for him overnight .
in atlanta 's posh buckhead neighborhood , he shot and killed federal agent david wilhelm at a house the agent was renovating .
the judge , after sentencing nichols to the slew of charges , urged the victims ' of nichols ' crimes to try their best to regroup .
" we 've learned a lot from this horrible tragedy , and as horrible as it was , we need to learn from this and make sure it never happens again , " said bodiford .
the judge offered advice for the prison guards who will handle nichols .
" do not trust mr. nichols ever again .
ever again .
because he can not be trusted . " .
updated saturday , december 05 , 2009 8 : 28 pm .
texas escapee now on u . s . marshal's most wanted list .
last week's escapee from the texas prison system is still at large and is now on the u . s . marshal service's "most wanted" list of fugitives .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . is serving three life sentences .
he escaped last week while being transported from a prison in huntsville to one in beaumont , texas .
comeaux is accused of using a gun which was smuggled in to him for the escape .
he was in prison after being convicted of aggravated sexual assault of a child and aggravated assault with a deadly weapon .
according to texas authorities , the weapons conviction stemmed from a 1999 incident where he stabbed his wife 17 times while she was visiting him in prison .
india suffers massive internet disruption after undersea cables break .
millions of people across the middle east and asia have lost access to the internet after two undersea cables in the mediterranean suffered severe damage .
huge numbers in egypt and india were left struggling to get online as a result of the outage , when the major internet pipeline between egypt and italy was cut .
internet service providers ( isps ) throughout the region , including those in united arab emirates , kuwait and saudi arabia , also reported problems .
international telephone calls , which have also been affected , are being rerouted to work around the problem .
industry experts told the times that two sub-sea cables went down just off alexandra , causing the mass disruption .
" it is incredibly rare to experience a dual-break where both cables are down simultaneously , " said a spokesperson for interoute , the internet networks company .
the egyptian ministry said it will take " several days " for cables to be repaired and is trying to reroute egypt 's internet connections .
indian isps said their problems were due to the cable damage off egypt .
speaking to reporters , rajesh chharia , president of the internet service providers ' association of india , said : " information technology companies , software companies and call centres that provide online services to the uk or the us east coast are the worst affected . " .
rafaat hindy , from the egyptian ministry , said : " despite this being an international cable affecting many gulf and arab countries , we are closest to it and so we have a lot of responsibility .
" we are working as fast as we can . " .
it is thought that up to 70 per cent of web services in egypt , and 60 per cent in india , were disrupted yesterday .
there were reports that phone and internet difficults had spread to yemen , sudan , bangladesh and sri lanka .
the shut down will take several days to fix , and could have a major impact on the region and across the world .
it is likely to hit businesses who will struggle to communicate in the affected countires .
call-centres who work for british companies are likely to be offline or hard to contact in the coming days .
others warned that bank and stock market trading could be affected .
the digital blackout highlighted the vulnerability of global communications .
hundreds of millions of people access the web , but the vast majority of international traffic runs through a a small amount of cables submerged below the sea .
industry insiders warned that a domino effect was occuring today , causing the disruption to spread across the globe .
as companies ' private internet services went down , workers were forced to use the public internet and mobile phones to communicate .
this has resulted in a heavy strain on phone and internet networks , meaning calls could go down and cause the internet to become slower or blackout completely .
seacom restored for commercial isps on alternate routes .
seacom's business customers , including commercial internet service providers , have had their services restored via alternative routes , seacom announced today .
october 14 , 2011 .
subsea cable operator seacom announced on twitter today ( 14 october 2011 ) that they have restored all their business customers on alternate routes following an outage expected to extend into next week .
this includes commercial internet service providers , according to seacom's tweet , which said that all such isps using seacom capacity are no longer affected by the outage .
seacom started to experience problems on saturday , 8 october 2011 , which it said was caused by a problem on a cable between abu talat in egypt and marseilles in france .
in an official statement from seacom said that their initial estimates were that it would take 12 days to repair the cable , depending on weather conditions .
mweb announced on 12 october 2011 that their services through seacom were running at full capacity again .
cybersmart posted on its website that their seacom service was restored at 10 : 57 on 11 october 2011 .
openweb ceo keoma wright said that 99% of their supplier traffic has been restored .
"we however were not severely affected due to the sat3 backup in place on all our offerings , " wright added .
at the time of writing the websites of axxess and afrihost still said that they were experiencing degraded adsl service .
neither isp provided feedback as to whether their seacom capacity had been restored .
damaged undersea cables disrupting service .
parts of asia , the middle east , and europe experienced internet and telephone outages friday when three undersea cables between italy and egypt in the mediterranean sea were damaged .
the affected cable systems , which run from alexandria in northern egypt to sicily in southern italy , carry more than 75 percent of traffic between the middle east , europe , and the united states .
it 's still unclear how the cables were damaged or when they will be fixed .
reliance globalcom , a communications provider in india , told bloomberg news that there was no time frame for getting the network fixed .
france telecom said it plans to send a boat to fix the problem and should have service restored to normal by december 31 , according to bloomberg .
the cable system that was cut is known as smw4 cable or south east asia- middle east-western europe 4 .
it connects 12 countries : pakistan , indonesia , singapore , malaysia , bangladesh , india , sri lanka , united arab emirates , saudi arabia , egypt , italy and france .
vodafone 's cell phone service in egypt has been affected by the cable failure , according to bloomberg .
mobile phone service between europe and asia on orange was also disrupted , the bloomberg article said .
orange officials told bloomberg that at one point as much as 55 percent of voice traffic in saudi arabia , 52 percent in egypt , and 82 percent in india was out of service .
telephone providers , such as portugal telecom and reliance , told bloomberg that they 've been rerouting traffic to other parts of their network to avoid issues .
but this rerouting has caused network congestion , which means slower internet connections and some dropped phone calls .
in january , undersea cables outside alexandria were also damaged , disrupting about 70 percent of the communications network in india and the middle east .
seacom cable problems may only be resolved next week .
initial estimates indicate that the total seacom repair time will be around twelve days .
october 11 , 2011 .
as many sa gamers may have noticed , seacom is experiencing downtime again .
the cable system went down on saturday 8 october 2011 , and initial feedback suggests that the downtime may last for a few days .
seacom said that their mediterranean backhaul service provider is experiencing a service affecting outage between abu talat and marseilles .
this is affecting all seacom traffic to europe .
tenet cto andrew alston said that they have had confirmation that seacom is offline and is unlikely to come back online for a few days .
the seacom downtime seems to be related to a failure on the telecom egypt north ( te north ) submarine telecommunications cable linking france and egypt .
seacom has stated that the total repair time of the current problems they experience will be around twelve days depending on weather conditions .
"initial estimates indicate that the total repair time will be around twelve days depending on weather conditions .
this entails gaining the necessary permits and the actual repair time .
a repair vessel has been notified of the call - out and mobilization will occur immediately once permits are received , " seacom said in an official statement .
"the outage initially affected all seacom traffic to europe , however seacom was able to restore some services by saturday afternoon . " .
"further restoration has continued throughout the weekend in cooperation with customers and partners and seacom will continue to actively work on securing additional capacity for all necessary services over the next day or two . " .
severed cables in mediterranean disrupt communication .
internet and telephone communications between the middle east and europe were disrupted after three submarine cables between italy and egypt in the mediterranean sea were damaged .
the failures cut the flow of " data of various kinds " between europe and the middle east , and there 's no timeframe for when communications will be restored , said sanjeev gaur , director of assurance at reliance globalcom ltd. in india .
france telecom sa , which plans to send a maintenance boat to fix the problem , said the situation should be back to normal by dec. 31 .
three cable systems carrying more than 75 percent of traffic between the middle east , europe and america have been damaged , according to the u.k. 's interoute plc , which operates a fiber- optic data network connecting 92 cities .
the cables run from alexandria in northern egypt to sicily in southern italy .
in january , an anchor severed the cables outside alexandria after bad weather conditions forced ships to moor off the coast .
" the information we have is a bit sketchy , but chances are that it will have been an anchor again , " jonathan wright , interoute 's director of wholesale products , said in a telephone interview .
" close to 90 percent of all the data traffic between europe and the middle east is carried on these three cable systems . " .
interoute said the january incident brought down 70 percent of the internet network in india and the middle east .
customer services and some mobile-phone customers at vodafone group plc 's egyptian unit are affected by the cable failure , said simon gordon , a spokesman for the u.k. company .
egypt is the only country where the company is aware of any problems linked to the failure , he said .
most mobile-phone calls are routed through fixed-line cables at some point .
verizon communications inc. , the second-largest u.s. phone company , said it has rerouted traffic for its verizon business customers making calls to the middle east by siphoning it to europe and the u.s. and then down through asia , spokeswoman linda laughlin said in an interview .
the rerouting slowed some traffic to about half its normal speed , laughlin said .
point-to-point customers still do n't have connections , and verizon does n't have information on how many subscribers are affected .
the company expects repairs to be completed by early next week , she said .
portugal telecom sgps sa , portugal 's biggest phone company , has redirected traffic through other cables in the region and therefore the " impact is very small , " said a company official .
sonaecom sgps sa , portugal 's second-biggest fixed-line phone company , also said that it 's diverting traffic to other routes .
france telecom 's orange mobile-phone unit said the cable failure " greatly disturbed " the traffic between europe and parts of asia .
at one point as much as 55 percent of voice traffic in saudi arabia , 52 percent in egypt and 82 percent in india was out of service , according to orange .
internet traffic " from mumbai to london has now been rerouted via hong kong which may lead to congestion and increased latency on this route , " .
reliance said in an e-mailed " traffic disruption update , " adding that it is working with the affected customers to restore all services .
the company said it will publish another update on its web site tomorrow .
" you can reroute the data through other cables , but that increases traffic and can potentially create bottlenecks , " interoute 's wright said .
" so internet connections may slow down and some phone calls could get disrupted . " .
some of interoute 's clients in the u.k. and southern france are probably affected by the failure , wright said .
" it 's difficult to forecast how long it will take to fix the problem as it depends on the weather and sea conditions in the mediterranean , " wright said .
a fault is affecting the smw4 cable near the alexandria cable station , the flag fea cable is down and the smw3 cable system is also affected , according to information received from telstra .
flag telecom group ltd. , a reliance globalcom unit , operates flag fea and the other cables are owned by groups of phone companies across the regions .
reliance globalcom does n't know exactly what happened and engineers are working on the problem , said anurag joshi , head of the company 's global network operations center .
the smw4 cable , also known as sea-me-we 4or south east asia-middle east-western europe 4 cable network , connects 12 countries : pakistan , indonesia , singapore , malaysia , bangladesh , india , sri lanka , united arab emirates , saudi arabia , egypt , italy and france .
france telecom said one of its maintenance boats in the mediterranean area is headed to the region for a relief mission with 20 kilometers of spare cable on board .
priority will be to recover the sea-me-we 4 cable , then the sea-me-we 3 cable , france telecom said , adding that sea me we4 could be operating by dec. 25 and the situation should be back to normal by dec. 31 .
tuesday , october 11 , 2011 .
south africa : p2p control helps overcome undersea cable outage .
"the seacom undersea cable , which provides a data link between south africa , europe and india , experienced downtime beginning on saturday 8 october 2011 , caused by a problem on a cable between abu talat ( egypt ) and marseilles ( france ) . .
meanwhile , local internet service providers ( isps ) who use bandwidth on the seacom cable have been scrambling to implement contingency plans to keep their customers connected" .
according to an mweb update - "some more bandwidth was brought online last night [ 10 october 2011 ] bringing us up to 83% of our required capacity .
we allowed p2p traffic to run from midnight to 7am , after which it had to give way for critical traffic again . " .
as mweb also uses peerapp's caching solution , it may help serve some p2p traffic without accessing the undersea cable .
as if the middle east and south asia do n't have enough problems with war , terrorism and poverty , now communications in many of the nations in those regions have been disrupted .
the cause - three international underwater cables in the mediterranean sea that were damaged friday .
millions of people trying to make phone calls or log on to the internet wo n't be doing so for a while .
a similar problem happened nearly a year ago , but this one has the potential to be worse .
the damage this time broke all three of the cables connecting europe with asia via the middle east .
many carriers in the middle east and south asia will have to route their european traffic around the globe , instead of via a more direct route .
no word yet on an official cause of the damage .
previous reasons for cable breaks include oil drilling and wayward anchors .
seacom restored via alternative routes .
seacom announced that it has fully restored all its customers on alternative routes .
october 20 , 2011 .
subsea cable operator , seacom , announced on twitter today ( 20 october 2011 ) that they have restored services to all customers using alternate routes , following an outage that was initially expected to take 12 days to repair .
in a statement published on its official website , seacom said that a repair vessel is now in transit .
"the vessel has received the master permit for this repair ; operational permits are being finalized and should be received prior to arrival on the repair ground , " seacom said .
the repair is now expected to be completed in late october , but seacom warned that "the usual exogenous factors associated with sub - sea repairs , including weather and currents , may further impact the repair . " .
seacom started to experience problems on saturday , 8 october 2011 , which it said was caused by a problem on a cable between abu talat in egypt and marseilles in france .
last week friday ( 14 october 2011 ) , seacom announced that it had restored services to its business customers , which included internet service providers , via alternate routes .
internet service in egypt , the uae , india and other counties in the region was interrupted today when submarine cables in the mediterranean sea failed .
cause of the failure is not known at this time , says operator reliance globalcom .
a total of three cables linking italy and egypt went down .
a ship has been sent out to fix the problems .
currently , services are being rerouted to backup cables and satellites .
as rerouting measures fully kick in , services are expected to improve by early saturday morning .
this is n't the first time that cable service to the region has failed .
earlier this year , five separate undersea cables were cut between late january and early february , interrupting service to a number of countries .
there 's likely to be some serious failure analysis involved if we see some more pipes go off-line in the next week .
severed cables bring down phone lines linking europe , asia , mideast .
internet and telephone communications between europe , the middle east and asia were severely disrupted friday after three undersea cables were damaged in the mediterranean , france telecom said .
" the causes of the cut , which is located in the mediterranean between sicily and tunisia , on sections linking sicily to egypt , remain unclear , " a statement said , while a spokesman said it was unlikely to have been an attack .
the company said it was sending a ship to fix the lines but that it would not arrive until monday and that it could take until december 31 before normal service was restored .
most business-to-business traffic between europe and asia was being rerouted through the united states , the firm said , but regular communications between europe and several asian countries has been disrupted since early friday .
sixty-five per cent of traffic to india was down , while services to singapore , malaysia , saudi arabia , egypt , taiwan and pakistan were also severely affected , a spokesman said friday evening .
an afternoon toll released by france telecom said that 100 percent of traffic was lost in the maldives indian ocean islands , with the gulf state of qatar and djibouti , on the gulf of aden , also losing over 70 percent of their traffic .
egypt 's state news agency mena reported that the cuts happened off the coast of sicily at 10:00 am ( 0800 gmt ) on friday , with indian-registered reliance globalcom directing a submarine cable repair company to head to the region to fix the cables .
the agency added that services were being rerouted to backup cables and satellites to compensate for the failures .
the cables are jointly owned by several dozen different countries .
one of the cables is 40,000 kilometres ( 25,000 miles ) long and links 33 different countries while a second is 20,000 kilometres long and serves 14 states .
" if there was just one cable down we could have used the other two , " said france telecom spokesman louis-michel aymard .
" but all three are down so this puts us in a very difficult situation .
" this is a very rare situation , " he said .
the cables might have got caught up in trawlers ' nets or there may have been an underwater landslide , said aymard .
one appeared to be fully severed , while the other two seemed to be only partially cut , he added .
each cable has a " leader " country , he said. egypt is in charge of the main cable and in this capacity commissioned france telecom marine , a subsidiary of the communications giant , to handle the repairs .
the boat , with 20 kilometres ( 12.5 miles ) of spare cable on board , will leave very early saturday and arrive monday .
in january , five cables in the middle east and europe were cut , causing internet failures in the region and damaging traffic through the region 's important call centre industry .
france telecom said it would publish updates on its website on the latest traffic disruption .
traffic from europe to algeria and tunisia is not affected , it said .
seacom operations fully restored : 4 november 2011 .
the break in an undersea cable on that affected seacom has been repaired .
november 4 , 2011 .
undersea cable operator seacom announced today ( 4 november 2011 ) that repairs have been completed on a broken cable off the coast of egypt that caused an outage on its network .
seacom said that its cable network was successfully repaired on 29 october 2011 and all circuits were restored to the core network as of 4 november 02 : 00 gmt .
all seacom traffic to europe was affected by the break which happened on 8 october 2011 on one of their mediterranean backhaul service providers' cables between abu talat and marseilles .
initial indications were that the break would take 12 days to fix .
the cable operator announced that it had restored services to its business customers via alternate routes on 14 october 2011 .
this was followed by similar restoration to the rest of its clients on 20 october 2011 .
"our partner network has informed us that the assigned cable ship worked in optimal weather conditions for the duration of their repairs .
the cable was quickly lifted , the new cable spliced in , tested and re - laid thanks to close coordination between the ship crew and on - shore support , " seacom said in an announcement on their website .
internet and telephone traffic between europe and the middle east and asia was hampered friday after three major underwater data lines were cut , according to france telecom .
the cut occurred on lines between 07:28 and 08:06 coordinated universal time ( utc ) on lines in the mediterranean sea that connect sicily to tunisia and egypt , the telecommunications company said .
the cuts were to the sea me we 4 and sea me we 3 lines , which connect countries between singapore and france as well as the flag cable route , which stretches from the u.k. to japan , a france telecom spokeswoman who asked not to be named said .
france telecom is n't sure what caused the cut , she said .
france telecom is n't sure what caused the cut , she said .
" we have two assumptions .
the first is that it could be an underwater earthquake , " she said .
" or it could be simply a ship in the area which has cut the cable . " .
" or it could be simply a ship in the area which has cut the cable . " .
a maintenance boat is en route to the site of the cut , but it will not get there until monday , and it will take as many as two weeks for the situation to return to normal , she said .
many countries were affected by the outage , including india , saudi arabia , egypt and malaysia , which all lost a significant percentage on their voice traffic to europe .
for example , 82 percent of india 's voice traffic capability to europe was out of service early friday , although that situation has now improved , the spokeswoman said .
internet traffic also has been hit by the incident , according to danny mcpherson , chief security officer with arbor networks .
his company 's sensors reported that between 3,000 and 5,000 internet routes in the region were off-line early friday morning .
these routes are the internet 's equivalent of dialing prefixes , meaning that computers that used them would be completely unreachable until service was restored .
" it 's significant that it was lost , " he said .
" for them it was in the middle of a business day on friday . " .
a large number of these came back on-line around 17:00 utc , mcpherson said .
most likely this happened after isps ( internet service providers ) that had been knocked off-line had found alternate routes for their traffic .
it 's hard to estimate how many internet users were affected by the cut , but the internet has a total of close to 300,000 such routes , he said .
this is not the first time this year that these cables have been cut .
earlier this year both the sea me we 4 and flag cables were cut .
flag 's cable was reportedly cut by ships anchored off the coast of alexandria , egypt .
august 17 , 2011 .
undersea internet cables severed near egyptian coast line .
have you experienced any internet connection or mobile phone problems yesterday ! ?
it seems that another incident of an undersea telecommunications cable being severed on tuesday has resulted in partially blocking internet and mobile services in alexandria and some other governorates .
in a statement to al - masry al - youm news paper , mahmoud al - goweiny , a member of the national telecommunications regulatory authority's board of directors said that the cable cut happened around the same time that a different cable , owned by telecom egypt , was also cut , affecting services in egypt .
he also iterated that this particular undersea cable has frequently malfunctioned since late 2007 .
this cable is most likely to be the sea - me - we 4 that passes through egypt coming from europe and then reaches asia .
despite the after effects of this cable cut seems to be limited , however these incidents have been occurring more than once in a relatively short period of time .
severing a main internet pipe - line could leave a country's communication and economy crippled for at least 72 to 120 hours causing a lot of problems !
it should be time to re - think protecting these valuable communication life lines !
etisalat egypt and linkdotnet are one of egypt's largest internet service providers , and among the most affected by the cable cut .
no further details were reported by authorities about the effects of the cable cuts .
damaged cables cause internet outages for millions .
up to 70 % of communications to the middle east have been disrupted after cables connecting region to europe were damaged .
millions of web users across the middle east are struggling to get online after damage to undersea cables connecting europe , africa and asia took down a major route for internet traffic .
as much as 70 % of internet traffic and telephone communications between the continents has been affected by the outage .
it is believed to have been caused by damage to a string of cables which run on the bed of the mediterranean sea between italy and egypt , connecting europe with other parts of the world .
the lines , which run hit the egyptian coast at alexandria and go on to connect to asia , are responsible for carrying vast amounts of internet traffic and phone calls between different parts of the world .
it remains unclear what precisely what caused the damage , but the egyptian communications ministry said that ships have already been dispatched to look at the problem - although repairs will take " several days " .
jonathan wright , a director at telecoms company interoute , said that the outage could have a devastating affect on business and communication around the world .
" the potential impact of an outage of this size can not be underestimated - it is like severing a major artery , " he said .
" global internet connectivity is reliant on sub-sea cables connecting countries . " .
the incident comes less than a year after a similar outage brought a halt to communications between europe , africa and asia .
those problems were believed to have been caused by ships ' anchors ripping through another section of the same cables , but were exacerbated by simultaneous damage in lines through the middle east .
as many as 75 million people were affected in countries as far apart as india , egypt and dubai .
it is not yet clear whether today 's outage is the same order of magnitude .
despite the prevalence of wireless internet and satellite connections , global communications are still largely reliant on the vast webs of fibre optic cables which cover the planet .
the lines , which take years of planning to install , move traffic backwards and forwards across continents .
the cables hit by the latest incident are among the most vital information pipelines linking europe to the rest of the world - and are responsible for the majority of all connectivity in the middle east and south asia .
according to alan mauldin , research director of communications analysis company telegeography , the succession of problems in the region are only likely to be remedied by a series of new cables which are currently being planned .
" many new cable systems are slated to enter service between europe and egypt in the next few years , " he said .
cable cuts partially block internet , mobile services in some areas .
on tue , 16 / 08 / 2011 - 13 : 42 .
an undersea telecommunications cable cut on tuesday partially blocked internet and mobile services in alexandria and some other governorates .
the cable cut happened around the same time that a different cable , owned by telecom egypt , was cut that also affected services , egyptian authorities said .
mahmoud al - goweiny , a member of the national telecommunications regulatory authority's board of directors , told al - masry al - youm that this particular undersea cable has frequently malfunctioned since late 2007 .
ahmed osama , deputy executive director of telecom egypt , said the cable passes through egypt from europe and reaches asia .
osama said the cut's effect in egypt was limited , and there haven't been clear reports about a cause .
"some internet users suffered problems with internet and mobile services , osama noted .
osama attributed these problems to the telecom egypt cable cut , which affected etisalat egypt and linkdotnet , two of egypt's largest internet services providers .
no further details were reported about the effects of the cuts .
mass internet outages in egypt after cables cut .
egypt 's communications ministry says internet cables in the mediterranean sea have been cut , causing massive internet outages .
the ministry says three internet cables were cut off the coast of sicily on friday morning .
throughout egypt , the internet is almost completely down or working sporadically .
the ministry says it will take " several days " for cables to be repaired and is trying to switch egypt 's internet to an alternative route .
it was the second large-scale internet outage in egypt this year .
undersea cables were also damaged in january , causing outages in the mideast and india .
yemen and sudan were also having phone and internet difficulties friday because of he cable cut .
fiber cable cut in egypt .
august 16 , 2011 .
reports on tuesday morning indicated that a fiber optic cable in the northern part of egypt had been damaged , resulting in the loss of all telecommunications in egypt's second largest city of alexandria and parts of the nile delta region .
itnewsafrica that "a telecom egypt fiber line near alexandria has been damaged resulting in loss of telecommunications for all three mobile operators . " .
the official , however , did not give details as to why the cable was damaged and it remains unclear whether it was an attack or a miscue on the operator's part .
telecom egypt , the country's state - owned fixed line monopoly is responsible for all adsl internet connections and the three mobile operators in egypt their infrastructure for connectivity .
egypt is not unfamiliar to telecom cuts .
in recent years , the country has lost internet service after mediterranean cables were cut , leaving the country largely blacked out for days .
the official , who was not authorized to speak to the media , did say that they were attempting to rectify the problem "as soon as we understand exactly what happened . " .
users across the country reported immediate drops in speed and connectivity .
at local cafes in cairo , users immediately saw a difference in connection speed .
"i hope they get this sorted out quickly , because i have to upload things daily and this cut is affecting how i work , " said an egyptian blogger and journalist , who added that the "internet is my life .
if it goes down , it really hurts my ability to work . " .
internet , phone traffic badly disrupted .
internet and phone communications between europe , the middle east and asia were severely disrupted on friday after three undersea cables were damaged in the mediterranean between sicily and north africa .
france telecom says the cause of the cuts is still unclear , but it 's unlikely to have been an attack .
there may have been an underwater landslip .
the company says most business traffic between europe and asia is being rerouted through the united states , but 65 % of traffic to india is down , and services to singapore , malaysia , saudi arabia , egypt , taiwan and pakistan are severely affected .
a ship has been sent to fix the cables but normal service may not be restored till 31 december .
submarine cable problem disrupts telecom services in alexandria .
thursday , aug 18 , 2011 .
services on egypt's three telecom operators were disrupted in parts of alexandria on tuesday afternoon , and some users in cairo experienced slower internet connections due to "downtime" in a submarine cable .
vodafone egypt said some users are continuing to face slight problems due to damage in telecom egypt's cables which began in central cairo .
"vodafone , along with the country's three telecom providers has been affected by a damage in one of telecom egypt's fiber cables in a wire going from the ramsis communications center all the way to sadat city , " said khaled hegazy , vodafone's external affairs director .
"this has affected and continues to affect communications especially in parts of alexandria and suez governorates , " he said .
"we have not been told when it will be fixed yet , it is in the hands of telecom egypt .
right now it is still slightly affecting some connections , " he added .
on its twitter account , etisalat misr said , "customers on all three egyptian mobile operators may currently face connection issues with voice , mobile internet , and / or blackberry services as a result of a damaged fiber cable from te data .
"the issue is currently under investigation and services will be restored as soon as possible . " .
according to mybroadband , the largest it website in south africa , the problem was attributed to downtime experienced by the pan - african ict enabler seacom .
the company which is a privately funded venture that owns and operates a submarine fiber - optic cable connecting communication carriers in south and east africa , affected mobinil , vodafone , and etisalat networks across parts of alexandria and suez .
"we are seeing some problems in our telecom towers which are affecting only certain parts like abu qir district or maamoura , for example , " a mobinil customer service representative told daily news egypt .
"other than that , our clients have been calling us as usual . " .
a vodafone customer representative also confirmed that some of their users were experiencing downtime in parts of alexandria due to "minor technical difficulties . " .
according to seacom , the problems began at around 08 : 30 am on tuesday , and were resolved at approximately 09 : 40 .
"seacom's partner network experienced a terrestrial fiber cut between alexandria and the suez this morning 16th august from 06 : 31gmt .
all links are back up as of 07 : 35gmt .
total downtime was 1hr 4 mins , " the company was quoted as saying in an official statement .
mideast internet services disrupted .
internet links between europe , the middle east and south asia have been disrupted after undersea cables failed in the mediterranean .
international telephone and internet services in egypt were down by 80 percent , in india by 65 percent .
the company managing the cables says a ship is under way to carry out repairs .
france telecom expects communications will not be fully restored before 31 december .
seacom downtime explained .
seacom experienced downtime this morning ; seacom explained that the downtime was most likely caused by a problem on sea - me - we 4 .
august 16 , 2011 .
numerous broadband users complained about international connectivity problems this morning , caused by problems on the seacom cable .
seacom confirmed the problems on their twitter account .
"we can confirm that seacom is currently experiencing problems on their network .
we will keep you updated on progress , " seacom tweeted at 09 : 30 this morning ( tuesday 16 august 2011 ) .
according to seacom's suveer ramdhani initial feedback points to a problem on the sea - me - we 4 which caused downtime of around an hour on tuesday .
the downtime started at around 08 : 30 on tuesday , and was resolved at approximately 09 : 40 .
"seacom's partner network experienced a terrestrial fibre cut between alexandria and the suez this morning 16th august from 06 : 31gmt .
all links are back up as of 07 : 35gmt .
total downtime was 1hr 4 mins , " seacom said in an official statement .
mweb ceo rudi jansen said that their business clients experienced no service interruptions because of the seacom downtime , and that their residential clients may have experienced some slow international connectivity .
mweb has automatic failover on sat - 3 in the event of seacom outages to minimize the impact on their subscribers .
severed cable disrupts net access .
internet and phone communications between europe , the middle east , and asia have been seriously disrupted after submarine cables were severed .
it is thought the flag fea , smw4 , and smw3 lines , near the alexandria cable station in egypt , have all been cut .
a fault was also reported on the go submarine cable 130km off sicily .
experts warned that it may be days before the fault is fixed and said the knock on effect could have serious repercussions on regional economies .
jonathan wright - director of wholesale products at interoute which manages part of the optical fibre network - told the bbc that the effects of the break would be felt for many days .
" this will grind economies to a halt for a short space of time , " he said .
" if you look at , say , local financial markets who trade with european and us markets , the speed at which they get live data will be compromised . " .
" if you think how quickly trades can be placed , if they are suffering from bad latency times , then by the time a trade is placed , the market may well have moved on . " .
the cause of the break is as yet unknown , although some seismic activity was reported near malta shortly before the cut was detected .
in a statement released in relation to one of the breaks , france telecom said : " the causes of the cut , which is located in the mediterranean between sicily and tunisia , on sections linking sicily to egypt , remain unclear . " .
the french firm said it was sending a ship out to fix the line between italy and egypt , although it could take until 31 december to fully repair the line .
the main damage is to the four submarine cables running across the mediterranean and through the suez canal .
it is thought that 65 % of traffic to india was down , while services to singapore , malaysia , saudi arabia , egypt , taiwan and pakistan have also been severely affected .
earlier this year , the same line was damaged in the same area - off the egyptian coast - although only two lines were snapped then .
" we 've lost three out of four lines .
if the fourth cable breaks , we 're looking at a total blackout in the middle east , " said mr wright .
" these three circuits account for 90 % of the traffic and we 're going to see more international phone calls dropping and a huge degradation in the quality of local internet , " he added .
" normally you would expect to see one major break per cable per year .
with four you should have an insurance policy .
for this to happen twice in one year , on the same cable , is a serious cause for concern . " .
brief unplanned seacom cable internet outage .
16 august 2011 .
( tue , 16 aug 2011 ) this morning one of the wits internet service providers , seacom , experienced an outage affecting international internet browsing .
the service is now back online .
tenet will continue to monitor and ensure that it is stable however , but from the looks of things traffic should now be flowing normally again .
according to information from seacom the outage was caused by a terrestrial break in the fibre in egypt on the smw4 cable system .
once we have official confirmation / an incident report we will send more information .
always at your service .
more telecoms disruption between europe and asia follows another brak in underwater telephone lines .
10 months after the last event which blocked lines between the two continents , 3 underwater cables were severed on the bottom of the sea " for unknown reasons " between sicily and tunisia .
france telecom reported that " an attack is unlikely " .
the company is sending a repair ship to the location but predicts that there will be problems during christmas which may last up to the new year .
business volumes between europe and asia have been redirected on trans-oceanic lines to the usa .
at present 65 % of traffic with india is offline .
the same goes for 59 % of communications with singapore , 44 % with malaysia , 55 % with saudi arabia , 52 % with egypt , 39 % with taiwan and 51 % with pakistan .
seacom problems only resolved next week .
initial estimates indicate that the total seacom repair time will be around twelve days .
october 10 , 2011 .
seacom said today ( 10 october 2011 ) that the total repair time of the current problems they experience will be around twelve days depending on weather conditions .
seacom started to experience problems on saturday 8 october 2011 , caused by a problem on a cable between abu talat ( egypt ) and marseilles ( france ) .
"initial estimates indicate that the total repair time will be around twelve days depending on weather conditions .
this entails gaining the necessary permits and the actual repair time .
a repair vessel has been notified of the call - out and mobilization will occur immediately once permits are received , " seacom said in an official statement .
"the outage initially affected all seacom traffic to europe , however seacom was able to restore some services by saturday afternoon . " .
"further restoration has continued throughout the weekend in cooperation with customers and partners and seacom will continue to actively work on securing additional capacity for all necessary services over the next day or two . " .
undersea cables damage disrupts internet services in egypt .
internet services in egypt have been disrupted due to damage of undersea cables in the mediterranean sea , the egyptian national telecommunication regulatory authority said friday .
up to 80 percent of internet services and call centers in egypt have been cut after the submarine cables were damaged south of italy on friday for unknown reason , said the egyptian mena news agency .
the egyptian side has contacted the international companies running the cables to give a repair report , mena quoted an official source as saying , adding internet services in egypt is expected to improve in 12 hours .
earlier in the day , egyptian minister of communications and information technology tareq kamel ordered to set up an operation room to follow up the repair works , which are carried out by an international marine cable repair company .
egypt is also trying to switch its internet service to a backup route via southeast asia and satellite .
egypt is constructing another undersea cable , namely te-north , to connect the northern egyptian port city of alexandria and the southeastern french city of marseille , said mena .
it is the second time in 2008 that egypt witnessed a large scale internet services cut due to submarine cable damage .
in january , internet services and international calls were also partly cut in egypt , along with a number of countries in the middle east and south asia .
mweb updates customers on seacom downtime .
seacom downtime has local isps scrambling to keep customers online ; mweb issues an update .
october 11 , 2011 .
summary : mweb has managed to restore 83% of the required capacity on seacom .
p2p protocols will remain shaped to prioritise critical traffic .
the seacom undersea cable , which provides a data link between south africa , europe and india , experienced downtime beginning on saturday 8 october 2011 , caused by a problem on a cable between abu talat ( egypt ) and marseilles ( france ) .
this outage will likely only be fully resolved sometime during the week beginning 17 october 2011 .
meanwhile , local internet service providers ( isps ) who use bandwidth on the seacom cable have been scrambling to implement contingency plans to keep their customers connected .
mweb operations has issued an update regarding the seacom downtime to its customers .
"some more bandwidth was brought online last night [ 10 october 2011 ] bringing us up to 83% of our required capacity .
we allowed p2p traffic to run from midnight to 7am , after which it had to give way for critical traffic again . " .
"we are working on having the remaining capacity restored during the course of the day , after which all traffic priorities will return to normal , " said mweb operations .
seacom has previously issued a statement on the current problem with the cable .
"initial estimates indicate that the total repair time will be around twelve days depending on weather conditions .
this entails gaining the necessary permits and the actual repair time .
a repair vessel has been notified of the call - out and mobilization will occur immediately once permits are received , " seacom said in an official statement .
"the outage initially affected all seacom traffic to europe , however seacom was able to restore some services by saturday afternoon [ 8 october 2011 ] . " .
"further restoration has continued throughout the weekend in cooperation with customers and partners and seacom will continue to actively work on securing additional capacity for all necessary services over the next day or two . " .
hansbrough sets carolina 's career scoring record .
reigning national player of the year tyler hansbrough has broken the career scoring record at north carolina .
the 6-foot-9 senior needed nine points in the top-ranked tar heels ' game against evansville on thursday night to pass phil ford for the record .
he tied ford on a jumper from the left wing with 14:05 left , then set the mark by banking in a turnaround shot with 7:41 left in the first half .
after the record-setting point , officials briefly stopped the game to allow ford , coach roy williams and athletics director dick baddour to present hansbrough with the game ball .
ford finished his career in 1978 with 2,290 points .
mcdermott fuels bluejays in valley tournament win .
doug mcdermott got a scoring record friday , will artino got a chance to showcase his skills on the big stage and gregory echenique got mad .
the first two factored heavily into creighton " s 65 - 53 victory against drake in the quarterfinals of the missouri valley conference tournament , but the last one might have been the deciding factor in moving the bluejays along to saturday " s semifinals .
echenique scored all 11 points of his points in the second half , grabbed 11 rebounds and blocked six shots .
six of his points , five of his rebounds and five of the blocks came after echenique got roughed up -- tackled , he said -- while cutting toward the basket midway through the second half .
no foul was called , but drake might have wished one had been .
after the no - call , the 6 - foot - 9 , 260 - pound echenique turned up the intensity to fuel a 15 - 2 run that turned a 47 - 44 creighton lead into a 16 - point cushion .
" it made me kind of mad when that happened , " echenique said .
" it changed my attitude a little , and gave me a little more of an edge .
i had to find a way to get that anger out , and i couldn " t say anything to the ref and risk getting a technical or something .
" i think i did the right thing , and it kind of capped my focus .
it made me play harder . " .
with echenique leading the late charge , creighton finally subdued a stubborn bulldog team that was playing to extend its season in an atmosphere that resembled a bluejays home game .
creighton fans filled almost two - thirds of the 9 , 000 seats in the lower bowl of the scottrade center , and experienced some anxious moments before their team finally took command .
mcdermott , artino and echenique figured heavily into the outcome that improved the bluejays to 25 - 7 and advanced them to a 1 : 35 p . m . semifinal meeting against indiana state , which defeated evansville 51 - 50 in friday " s second quarterfinal .
" will was great the first half and made some great plays in the second half , " creighton coach greg mcdermott said .
" doug was consistent offensively throughout , and i thought gregory really changed the game defensively in the second half .
" there was nothing that happened in the paint because of his energy and his ability to block some shots and change shots .
and he went and got the basketball off the boards . " .
doug mcdermott finished with 23 points , setting the school scoring record when he got his 11th point on a free throw with 4 : 43 left in the first half .
he made 8 of 14 shots from the field , including 3 of 4 3 - pointers , and grabbed seven rebounds .
artino , whose role has grown as his productivity has increased during the second half of the season , had a career - high 14 points and six rebounds .
five of his points came in a 7 - 0 run in the first half that turned a 12 - 12 tie into a lead creighton never relinquished .
still , things were getting tight when drake , which had defeated bradley in thursday " s play - in round , closed to 47 - 44 on seth vandeest " s basket with 10 : 03 to play .
on their next possession , the 15 - 17 bulldogs missed an open 3 - pointer that would have tied the game .
in between , echenique found himself sprawled on the court after getting bumped hard as he moved toward the basket on a pick - and - roll play .
he stayed down for several seconds , then glared at a referee as he got to his feet .
echenique turned into an aggressive force in the final 10 minutes .
" we are a totally different team , " greg mcdermott said when asked what a fired - up echenique means to his club .
" we don " t resemble the team that we are when he isn " t playing like that .
he is so active .
he made multiple plays on several possessions .
" i " m really proud of him , because sometimes it " s hard to get the switch flipped .
when it gets flipped , he " s hard to deal with . " .
echenique " s dunk and free throw after being fouled started creighton " s decisive run , putting the bluejays ahead 50 - 44 .
a vandeest layup would cut the bulldogs " deficit to four , but they wouldn " t score again for almost eight minutes while creighton stretched its lead to 62 - 46 .
" you have to know how to use it when you get mad , " echenique said .
" i think i used it the right way out there today . " .
his teammates know the bluejays are a different team when echenique is engaged , one reason doug mcdermott pulled him aside at halftime .
echenique had missed both of his shots in the first 20 minutes and , mcdermott said , appeared to be down on himself .
" i just told him ,  greg , you have to be the man here , "  " doug said .
" i told him he was going to be our guy and we were going to feed him the ball .
he took that to heart and played with a command .
" i " m proud of him , and hopefully he can continue to bring that night after night . " .
echenique scored five of creighton " s first eight points in the second half .
artino then had four in row as creighton opened its first 10 - point lead of the game before drake countered with a 9 - 2 spurt that got the bulldogs back with three points .
echenique " was definitely a big factor , " said vandeest , who had 13 points .
" he has a huge body and uses his body around the basket .
he really stepped up in the second half . " .
drake coach mark phelps agreed .
" look at his numbers , " phelps said .
" he had 11 and 11 , and had six blocks .
he was really good tonight . " .
artino was never better .
his 14 points bettered his career high of 13 .
he was two rebounds off his personal best , and his play , especially in the first half , gave creighton a huge boost .
" will was tremendous , " doug mcdermott said .
" he " s so easy to play with because he can see over the defense , he " s good at the high - low pass and he crashes the boards every time .
it " s great to have a guy like will on the team . " .
it goes without saying that it " s pretty valuable to have mcdermott around , too .
he came in needing 11 points to break rodney buford " s scoring record of 2 , 106 .
mcdermott had 10 points in the first 7 minutes , then broke the record when he made the first of two free throws with 4 : 43 left in the half .
mcdermott now has 2 , 029 points in 106 games as a bluejay , but who " s counting ?
" it " s a special feeling that i can " t explain to pass guys like kyle korver , guys i looked up to in my childhood , " he said .
" and to do it in front of a big crowd here in st . louis is cool .
" but i don " t even think about that stuff .
you guys are going to make the most of it , but i " m just out there trying to win and play hard every night . " .
tyler hansbrough broke phil ford 's 30-year hold on the all-time north carolina scoring record last night with an otherwise routine turnaround shot that never looks pretty with 7:41 left in the 1st half .
hansbrough 's 20 points and the heels putting away evansville 91-73 were afterthoughts , the entire night was dedicated to the historic event inside the dean smith center .
the game was stopped following the basket to recognize the achievement , and the celebration continued after the game when hansbrough addressed the crowd .
unc officials bottled his tears so that scientists can study their possible healing ability .
creighton defeats drake 65 - 53 in mvc tournament .
march 8 , 2013 5 : 47 pm .
doug mcdermott scored 23 points to become creighton's all - time scoring leader and the top - seeded bluejays defeated drake 65 - 53 on friday in the quarterfinals of the missouri valley conference tournament .
in saturday's semifinals , creighton ( 25 - 7 ) will play no . 5 seed indiana state , which defeated evansville 51 - 50 on friday .
will artino scored 14 points off the bench and gregory echenique had 11 points , 11 rebounds and six blocked shots for creighton , which enjoyed a 44 - 26 rebounding edge .
grant gibbs had eight of the bluejays' 11 assists .
mcdermott , a junior , now has 2 , 129 points - 13 more than rodney buford , who played for the bluejays from 1995 - 99 .
richard carter scored 14 points and seth vandeest scored 13 for the ninth - seeded bulldogs ( 15 - 17 ) .
jordan clarke had 10 rebounds for drake , which reached the quarterfinal by beating bradley on thursday night .
hansbrough breaks unc scoring record .
the tar heels and the purple aces play a game , but the attention is on record-setting unc senior tyler hansbrough .
since the day he stepped foot on north carolina 's campus , forward tyler hansbrough has been working to diversify his offensive resume by trying to extend his shooting range .
but it seemed appropriate that when it came time to break unc 's three-decades-old career scoring record during the top-ranked tar heels ' 91-73 basketball victory over evansville on thursday night , the senior went back to an old staple : a workmanlike power move .
with 7:42 left in the first half at the smith center , hansbrough muscled around purple aces forwards james haarsma and pieter van tongeren to bank in a shot off the glass and score his 10th point of the game and 2,292nd point of his career .
that basket broke the mark of 2,290 that point guard phil ford set from 1974 to 1978 .
hansbrough finished with 20 points and now has 2,302 for his career .
" it was very fitting -- three guys on him , he was moving to the basket , kind of off-balance , he banks it in with his soft hands , " said gene hansbrough , who surprised his son by attending the game .
" it was a perfect shot for tyler to break the record on . " .
point guard ty lawson also chipped in 16 points for the tar heels ( 10-0 ) , though coach roy williams looked frustrated at times by his team 's performance , particularly after evansville 's shy ely ended the first half with a dunk .
that led the coach to stomp off the court despite the fact that his team led by 18 points .
the night , however , belonged to hansbrough , who accepted the game ball and an embrace from ford , now an assistant coach for the nba 's charlotte bobcats , immediately after setting the record .
after the game , ford pressed his hands together and bowed to the big man at mid-court , congratulating him as fans in the sellout crowd -- some of whom held signs reading " phil ford 2,290 " on one side and " tyler 2,291 + " on the other -- were on their feet for a rousing ovation .
" it 's an honor to be compared in the same breath at tyler , " ford said later .
" when i see how hard he plays , and how he listens to coach williams -- as a player , that 's why i tried to do . " .
then hansbrough -- who followed his record-breaking bucket with a missed dunk attempt that probably will make the team blooper reel -- choked up as he watched a montage of current and former players congratulate him on the accomplishment .
" i got a little emotional , because you may not know all those guys [ in the video ] , but you 've got a connection , because you played here and you 're part of something that i consider a family , " he said .
hansbrough , who also grabbed nine rebounds , had already secured his place in tar heels history -- and in the retired jersey portion of the smith center rafters , near ford -- by earning consensus national player-of-the-year honors last season .
breaking such a long-standing record adds to his still-blooming legend .
ford passed the likes of lennie rosenbluth , charles scott and larry miller because they could play varsity basketball for only three years .
antawn jamison , michael jordan and rashad mccants failed to pass ford because they stayed just three seasons .
then came hansbrough , the sometimes awkward-looking big man from poplar bluff , mo. , who opted to forgo going to the nba after his freshman , sophomore and junior seasons in order to try to win an ncaa title .
although he said he was a little nervous straying from the lane his rookie season , he actually scored his first tar heels bucket on nov. 19 , 2005 , when he led a three-on-two fast break against gardner-webb that finished with his jump shot in the lane .
and he has barely slowed since , topping unc 's chart for all-time free-throw attempts -- he passed the 1,000 mark thursday night -- en route to his latest record .
" i wanted it on a 3 , " hansbrough said of the record-setting bucket , " but in a game , i realize you have to do what you have to do . " .
which in his case , means playing with power and honing his improving finesse .
if he remains healthy , the combination probably will help him become the acc 's all-time leading scorer , as well .
former duke star j.j. redick holds that mark with 2,769 points .
" i do n't put anything past tyler .
if somebody tells me he 's going to break the nba scoring record -- boy , that 's going to be hard -- but you never say never when it comes to tyler , " gene hansbrough said .
" he 's got a strong will . " .
danny green ( 14 points ) became the 61st player in unc history to score 1,000 points when he buried a 3-pointer in the second half .
the historical record will show that with 7:42 remaining in the first half against evansville 's purple aces , tyler hansbrough became unc 's all-time leading scorer , slipping a screen , fighting through a double-team , and banking in a two-pointer for his tenth point of the game and the 2,292nd point of his career .
the record will show this in no small part because at least 20 sportswriters were diligently typing behind the home basket , writing versions of the same words at the very same moment .
if there was going to be any mistake , it was quickly corrected by carolina 's sports information army , abuzz all evening to ensure the moment was preserved perfectly .
then there were the photographers , on hand to document each move , each point , each congratulatory handshake .
beyond them , more than 20,000 witnesses ran their own internal documentary systems , surely thinking about how they 'll tell future generations of tar heel fans that they were present .
some might remember the moment coming at 7:41 , a tick of a second later than the actual basket , when the game clock was stopped for a tastefully brief ceremony and the obligatory photo op .
let the record show their memories were wrong , but it wo n't diminish the telling and retelling until history becomes legend , as it usually does .
often history happens in quieter places , witnessed by fewer people , not fully appreciated or understood until much later .
but this episode was not left for chance .
it had been anticipated for months , ever since carolina 's lunch-bucket all-american decided to return for his senior season -- not because he cared a lick about breaking phil ford 's almost 30-year-old record , but because he loves student life on campus , loves basketball , and wanted to keep doing both at the same time as long as possible .
the only hitch in the script was a sore shin and a twisted ankle that deferred the night for a few weeks , into late december , an early christmas gift to the faithful who filled ( well , almost filled ) the smith center on a misty night .
everything else followed the script nicely .
espn dutifully ensured a national audience would share the moment on television .
then hansbrough 's father , gene , made his surprise arrival at a game he was n't expected to attend .
but how could he miss it , really ?
having nurtured his son 's talent and his competitive drive and his character and everything else along the way , history demanded he be in his seat , ready to stand and salute his son as he swallowed down the lump in his throat and expressed his love and thanks .
evansville proved the story 's perfect villain , keeping it close through the early stages , and giving an already charged-up crowd opportunity to boo lustily as the purple aces ' physical big men knocked hansbrough to the ground on several occasions .
did n't they know that 's how hansbrough would have wanted it -- physically challenged , and therefore determined to crush them into submission ?
ford , meanwhile , made a gentlemanly entrance , gracefully shook hands with fans of all ages , posed for pictures , and waited in the wings for history to arrive .
after it did , he was pure class , thanking roy williams , hansbrough , and the university for asking him to be a part of the night .
" it 's a dream come true for me , " he said , sounding genuinely honored to be passing the torch to a player who , like him , gave his best for the program and properly understands that team success , not individual records , are the real measure of success .
even with the game underway and subject to unpredictable bounces , an official 's phantom call , or some other twist of fate , the script held .
the first points came from the foul line , swishing through the basket without a doubt , as they have more often than for any other carolina player before him .
one reminder of greatness in the books .
the next points rapidly followed on a series of jumpers , well beyond the range of anything doubters expected the brawling forward to hit on a regular basis when he was a freshman .
" i 'll prove you wrong , " you could almost hear him thinking as he hit each one , showcasing the senior 's evolution into a complete player .
another reminder : players like this come along only once in a generation .
then there was the struggle , as teammates worked to get him the ball in scoring position .
having told everyone he wanted to break the record on a three , he camped out on the wing for one possession but failed to get a touch .
on another , he posted hard inside as danny green took and missed an open three ; .
as the heels ran to the other end , williams appeared to holler at green for failing to look inside first .
on this night , with history looming , even good quality shots needed to wait for the moment .
but the struggle was needed , too .
has n't that been the essence of carolina 's working-class hero : the battler , scrapping for everything , finding success as much through passion as through athletic ability or skill ?
it took will -- and a brief stint on the bench -- before the moment came .
then , sure as sure , it did .
because it did , a number of things will be quickly forgotten .
though tywon lawson had another dominant performance and danny green ( who broke a milestone of his own with his 1,000th career point ) showcased the increasingly confident game that makes his summer draft experiment seem less surprising , the tar heels grinded their way through a game with 16 turnovers -- two more than evansville -- and only 17 assists .
deon thompson never established a rhythm , taken out of his finesse game by the purple aces ' physical style .
early in the second half , williams yanked out all five starters and replaced them with a blue team , unhappy with the focus and effort .
and wayne ellington 's shooting slump continued , his normally perfect stroke disconcertingly slow to return from the finals break .
it was another double-digit win , and against a quality mid-major opponent , but a work of art it was n't .
hansbrough , who looked as though he was pressing all night despite finishing with another 20-point , 9-rebound performance , admitted to the nerves .
they were particularly evident on his next touch after the record-breaking points , when hansbrough stole an inbounds pass , only to brick a dunk attempt off the back of the rim -- another moment that will probably be erased as history gives way to legend .
" i felt like there was a lot of pressure , " he said .
" i did n't want to strictly focus on the scoring record .
we had a game and i was trying to do whatever i could to help the team .
now i 'm glad it 's over , and i 'm ready to move on . " .
williams agreed .
" i said , " i 'm glad we got that behind us , now let 's focus on playing better , and let 's focus on guarding somebody . " .
i do n't look up at the scoreboard , but it was the first time that i can ever remember counting points in my head .
so when [ the shot ] goes in , it was immediately a feeling of elation , and [ then ] a feeling of relief that we got that out of the way . " .
danny green acknowledged the team was ready to move on as well .
" yeah , definitely , " he said .
" the one record we want to break is the winning record , going undefeated for an entire season and hopefully getting a national championship .
that 's the record i want to achieve . " .
history will remember this night , the emotions of the tribute video that followed the game , and the warmth of the celebratory laughter in the media room .
but in the locker room , business remained .
and in a brief quote that will probably be lost to memory , phil ford told the real story of the night in words that will echo until winter turns to spring .
" when i was coach here , if we did n't make the final four , it was a bad season , " he said .
" and now , this guy , " he continued , looking to hansbrough , " if he does n't win a national title , he has a bad season . " .
hansbrough did n't flinch , but the eyes flashed with recognition .
the record is set , but history is still waiting .
hansbrough broke ford 's all-time scoring record at north carolina during the game .
a captive audience that included an emotional tyler hansbrough watched intently as the smith center video boards mixed in congratulatory remarks with the collection of memorable plays .
the accompanying music : o.a.r. hit " shattered . " .
hansbrough , north carolina 's new career scoring leader , approached midcourt when the song ended. unc legend phil ford bowed before him .
hansbrough passed ford for the top spot in school history while posting 20 points in the top-ranked tar heels ' 91-73 victory against evansville on thursday night .
hansbrough entered the game with 2,282 points , eight fewer than ford 's total from 1974-78 .
he broke the record when he posted up on the right block , spun toward the middle of the lane and banked in an off-balanced shot over james haarsma with 7:42 remaining in the first half .
hansbrough missed a dunk 23 seconds later with unc leading 24-20 , and the tar heels ( 10-0 ) took control with a 19-4 run .
" i 'm usually not nervous before games , and i was a little nervous before tonight just because i felt like there was a lot of pressure , " hansbrough said .
" one thing for me , i did n't want to strictly focus on trying to break a scoring record .
we had a game , and i was trying to do whatever i could to help the team .
" whenever it did happen , i was thrilled and excited it was over .
also , i felt very honored . " .
officials stopped the game when hansbrough , who now has 2,302 points , made the record-setting basket. ford , an assistant coach with the charlotte bobcats , was posing for a courtside picture with two unc students when the ball went through the net .
ford , coach roy williams and director of athletics dick baddour presented hansbrough with the gameball during the brief stoppage in play .
" it 's an honor to be compared in the same breath with tyler , " ford said .
" when i look at how hard he plays and how he listens to coach williams , as a player , that 's what i tried to do .
as a player i would n't outrun a lot of people or outjump a lot of people - i was extremely quick , i will say that .
" the only thing i had going for me is i played for a great coach who brought out the best abilities in the things i could do .
i think that 's what tyler does . " .
the postgame ceremony featured comments from williams , strength and conditioning coach jonas sahratian , brendan haywood , marvin williams , raymond felton , antawn jamison , marcus ginyard and bobby frasor .
it also included clips of hansbrough 's dunk over 7-foot-7 kenny george , his buzzer-beating shot against virginia tech in the 2008 acc tournament and his game-clinching 3-pointer at duke as a freshman .
ford made a favorable impression early in his unc career at an unlikely sight : the fetzer field track .
roy williams recalled the effort ford put forth to complete the team 's mile run in a predetermined amount of time .
" the coaches are counting out the time as phil ford comes in there , and he dove across the line at fetzer on the asphalt track , " williams said .
" tyler hansbrough would have done that .
" that , to me , is one of the most special things .
phil ford is one of the greatest competitors i 've ever seen , and tyler hansbrough is also .
there 's not a lot of people in that classroom . " .
hansbrough , like ford , declined an opportunity to leave school for the nba following his junior season .
the fun of college is one reason hansbrough , who 's on pace to take over the acc career scoring mark currently held by duke alum j.j. redick , returned to unc .
the tar heels are favored to win the national championship , but the pursuit of a title is n't always serious business even if hansbrough 's interaction with teammates such as larry drew suggests otherwise .
" there was a lot of hype around this game , but before the game the whole team is around playing xbox and 'mortal kombat , ' " frasor said .
" he 's getting into it , calling larry a cheater .
stuff like that you would n't get at a professional level . " .
in front of his home fans and a national television audience , tyler hansbrough became the all-time leading scorer for north carolina basketball on thursday in his team 's win over evansville .
hansbrough needed just nine points in the game to eclipse phil ford for the top spot .
he wound up with 20 after surpassing ford 's mark in the first half .
hansbrough now has 2,301 career points as a tar heel .
hansbrough epitomizes all that is right with college basketball .
he gives his best every night , plays the game right , and has stayed in school for all four years of eligibility .
amid much speculation about how he will fare in the nba , hansbrough has remained focused on the present and is one of the biggest parts of the top team in the country , on what many believe is the best team in recent memory .
unc is now 10-0 , with their closest margin of victory being by 15 points .
joining events such as the big ten/acc challenge and the big 12/pac 10 hard-court series , the sec and big east showcased four cross-conference games for the second straight season .
while the sec stole the show on tuesday with victories from vanderbilt and tennessee , the big east responded on thursday with wins from cincinnati and louisville .
cincinnati jumped out to a big 18-point halftime lead over mississippi state , and fended off a comeback to win 75-63 .
the other game was very similar , as louisville jumped out to a big lead on mississippi .
mississippi came all the way back to tie the game in the second half before louisville ultimately won 77-68 .
mississippi was playing amid some controversy , as head coach andy kennedy denied charges of physical assault and racial remarks toward a cab driver .
several other players had big nights on thursday in addition to the record-setting night from hansbrough .
louisville 's earl clark finished his team 's victory with 25 points and 16 rebounds , both career highs .
clark actually had 17 points in just over the first eight minutes of the game , accounting for 17 of his team 's first 24 points .
clark 's hot start helped louisville to jump out on ole miss by a score of 32-14 midway through the first half .
cincinnati was led by deonta vaughn .
vaughn finished with 16 points and nine rebounds , scoring 14 in a four-minute stretch that resulted in a 20-2 run to close the half .
despite evanville 's loss to unc , one of their players was able to top hansbrough in the scoring column .
shy ely put up 23 points against the tar heels .
ely is a senior hoping to help lead the purple aces to the top of the missouri valley conference this season .
western kentucky , the same team that has given louisville its only loss of the season , earned a huge victory in their first conference game of the season by winning on the road against south alabama .
western kentucky and south alabama have dominated the sun belt conference in recent years , and both made the ncaa tournament last season .
the hilltoppers were led by 20-point efforts from guards a.j. slaughter and orlando mendez-valdez .
three teams went into games on thursday night trying to earn their first victories of the season .
congratulations are in order for north florida , who beat furman 77-66 .
the other two teams were not as fortunate .
north carolina central dropped to 0-13 after a 66-51 loss to winstom-salem and texas southern moved to 0-10 after absorbing a blowout loss to no. 9-ranked gonzaga .
published friday , march 8 , 2013 at 12 : 46 pm / updated at 12 : 48 pm .
mcdermott becomes cu " s all - time scoring leader .
with a first - half free throw , junior forward doug mcdermott scored his 11th point of the bluejays " valley tournament opener and passed rodney buford to become the school " s all - time scoring leader with 2 , 117 points .
mcdermott ended the game with 2 , 129 points .
with his first five points of the game , mcdermott passed bob harstad ( 2 , 110 ) and the next six helped him overtake buford ( 2 , 116 ) , the last two players ahead of him on the bluejays " career scoring chart .
it took buford and harstad four seasons to amass their point totals .
mcdermott has notched his in 105 games over three seasons .
top-ranked north carolina waited for tyler hansbrough to make history , then cruised to its latest lopsided victory .
hansbrough scored 20 points last night to break the storied program 's career scoring record and help the tar heels ( 10-0 ) remain unbeaten with a 91-73 victory over visiting evansville ( 7-2 ) .
the reigning national player of the year passed phil ford for the record midway through the first half .
ford , now an assistant coach to fellow tar heel alumnus larry brown with the nba charlotte bobcats , finished his career in 1978 with 2,290 points .
as soon as the record-setting shot went through the net , officials briefly stopped the game to allow ford , coach roy williams and athletic director dick baddour to present hansbrough with the game ball .
" i never dreamed i 'd be here and be the all-time leading scorer , " hansbrough said as he stood alone at midcourt after the game .
" this is a great honor to be here and to represent you guys every night in this uniform . " .
shy ely scored 23 points for the purple aces .
ott " s thoughts : creighton returns to mvc semis with win over drake .
posted on march 09 , 2013 .
the roar .
my goodness , the roar .
take approximately 7 , 000 creighton hoops fans .
ply them with a cocktail or two .
heap a few heavy dashes of high expectations for the weekend , and shake it all up with one big sense of being on vacation .
that concoction looks like a blue - out in the scottrade center .
it sounds like an overwhelming tidal wave of blue - clad crazies crashing onto the hard court after every doug mcdermott make and terrible officiating call .
creighton fans overtook the turnstiles in st . louis friday afternoon .
they came from all over the midwest and beyond to see cu win the weekend , and the bluejays obliged the first of three requisite wins for an arch madness championship .
drake put up a fight ; the bulldogs twice cut creighton " s lead to 3 points midway through the second half .
but a 15 - 2 run during 5 minutes late in the game sealed the deal for the jays , who will meet indiana state in the semifinals saturday afternoon after the sycamores outlasted evansville 51 - 50 friday .
creighton " s win over drake was historic for a few reasons , chief among them mcdermott setting the creighton career scoring record .
mcdermott scored 10 of the team " s first 17 points , displaying a mix of three - point touch and the ability to finish around the rim .
you know , classic dougie fresh .
those 10 points tied mcdermott with rodney buford , creighton " s all - time leading scorer .
and as those of us in the crowd who paid attention to such things held off on a bathroom or beer trip to watch him score one more point to break the record , mcdermott wouldn " t do so for another 8 minutes of game time .
still , it was inevitable .
and a bit anticlimactic , frankly , when he toed the free throw line and set the record with a one - for - two trip to the charity stripe .
still , that mcdermott broke rodzilla " s record in just three seasons is wild to me .
i " m lucky to say i " ve been able to watch mcdermott , buford , bob harstad , and chad gallagher -- the school " s top four scorers in history -- during my time on earth cheering for the jays .
but had you told me after that ncaa tournament game in 1999 that buford " s record would be bested by a guy in only three seasons , i " d have called you nuts .
or , as the kids around the valley type on twitter right now , #nutz .
as for the entirety of his afternoon , mcdermott was usual dependable doug .
with a building full of nba scouts hanging on his moves ( and , later , on illinois state " s jackie carmichael " s ridiculous individual performance ) , mcdermott scored 23 points and grabbed 7 rebounds in 35 minutes .
he left the court to chants of " one more year ! one more year ! one more year ! " .
indeed .
but for all of mcdermott " s historic accomplishments and his game - high scoring output , the storyline from the cu side of things was the combined play of gregory echenique and will artino .
echenique hadn " t scored much in two games against drake earlier this season : he put up just 2 points in a 30 - point cu win in omaha , and then battled foul trouble all night in des moines as drake upset cu .
and he went scoreless in the first half friday .
but up stepped artino , echenique " s sub when the cu coaching staff goes in favor of size and a high / low game instead of ethan wragge " s shooting touch from deep .
friday afternoon , artino gave the bluejays 14 energized and efficient minutes .
entering february , he had played double - digit minutes in just six games .
since the calendar flipped from january , though , he " s had five such games .
friday was arguably his most important performance of the season , given the stakes .
artino checked in at the under - 16 : 00 media timeout and immediately broke a 12 - 12 tie with a dunk .
fouled on the flush , he finished the traditional three - point play with a free throw .
two trips later , artino missed a shot but secured the follow and scored again .
he would grab two more rebounds before checking out with 9 : 07 to play in the first half .
while he was in , creighton " s lead grew as great as 9 points .
in 8 first - half minutes , the guy teammates and fans call big swag scored 7 points and ripped down 5 rebounds .
he played the high - low possessions well .
while drake held echenique scoreless in the first half , artino was able to find success .
he finished the day with a career - high 14 points and 6 rebounds ( 5 on the offensive glass ) .
in the second half , though , echenique got , um , engaged with things .
he scored all 11 of his points , grabbed 6 of his team - high 11 rebounds , and swatted 5 of his season - high 6 blocked shots ( the 6 blocks are second - most in an mvc tournament game ) .
during the game " s deciding 15 - 2 run , echenique scored two traditional three - point plays , grabbed 3 of his 11 rebounds , and blocked two shots .
hammered on a no - call and forced to play at a disadvantage based on inconsistent referring in the frontcourt , echenique seemed fired up .
he flexed a few times , too , so as to remind the bulldogs who the alpha dog in the paint was on friday afternoon .
the tournament " s top seed sticks around for semifinal saturday .
the 1998 bradley braves remains the only play - in winner to advance past the quarterfinals , when they beat a two - seeded creighton team .
wichita state survived a close game against missouri state friday evening , and illinois state broke away late from northern iowa to advance as the six - seed .
the valley will have four solid fan bases represented in the scottrade center saturday afternoon , with white and blue and black and gold the predominant colors swirling around the lower bowl .
the day sets up for some solid matchups .
the last time the two teams played , indiana state made creighton look completely lost .
a blacked out crowd in terre haute helped the sycamores to a resounding win .
meanwhile , it took a carmichael karate kick and other late - game miscues for illinois state to practically hand over a win to wichita state in normal .
tyler hansbrough scored 20 thursday night to break north carolina 's career scoring record and help the no. 1 tar heels remain unbeaten with a 91-73 victory over evansville in chapel hill , n.c .
the reigning national player of the year finished 7-for-14 from the field and had nine rebounds for north carolina ( 10-0 ) , which shook off a slow start and stretched the lead to double figures shortly after hansbrough passed phil ford for the record midway through the first half .
ford , now an assistant coach to larry brown with the nba 's charlotte bobcats , finished his career in 1978 with 2,290 points .
creighton's doug mcdermott returns for senior season .
doug mcdermott " s teammates figured it was just another day in the gym wednesday afternoon .
they were playing pick - up games with a guy they didn " t know for sure would be around next season .
but mcdermott had a secret .
shortly before hitting the court , mcdermott had told his father , creighton coach greg mcdermott , that he intended to return for his senior season rather than declare for the nba draft .
father and son then informed creighton athletic director bruce rasmussen .
doug called his mom to break the news to her , then stepped into the gym to play a little ball .
" he wasn " t acting any different , " grant gibbs said .
" business as usual . " .
later that night , mcdermott let the news slip to a couple of them .
" i had to go to class today , knowing that he was going to announce it , and try to be super low - key , " jahenns manigat said .
" but i couldn " t stop smiling . " .
it " s safe to assume bluejay nation had much the same reaction when , shortly before 2 p . m . , mcdermott sent out the following message on twitter .
" i will be returning to creighton for my senior year and can " t wait to put on that uniform for one more season . " .
mcdermott " s return for his senior season will allow a fan base that has come to marvel at his on - court accomplishments the past three seasons one more chance to watch him .
college basketball insiders see his return possibly giving creighton more of a fighting chance as it moves into the new big east .
for mcdermott , it will give him a chance to make more of an orderly transition from college basketball to professional basketball .
he knows he " s taking a risk from a financial standpoint .
" that " s definitely a lot of money i " m passing down , but that money could be there next year , " mcdermott told reporters thursday .
" it might not be quite as much , but you really can " t put a price tag on a senior year . " .
that was the same theme that mcdermott touched on repeatedly wednesday night in an exclusive interview with the world - herald .
in the final analysis , mcdermott " s heart won out over the cash .
" my heart has been telling me all along to stay , but my mind tried to take over a couple of times , " mcdermott said .
" i just ended up trusting myself that i was making the right decision . " .
his mind , of course , focused on the financial benefits that might be his had he decided to turn professional .
based on evaluations he received from the nba draft advisory committee , mcdermott said , " there was no doubt in my mind that i would have been a first - round pick . " .
that would have meant a two - year , guaranteed contract that could have been worth between a minimum of $888 , 600 to $1 . 4 million if he had been selected with one of the last 15 picks in the lower half of the first round .
that initially had his father recommending that his son turn pro .
" he knew my dream is to play in the nba , and he just felt that this was too good of an opportunity to pass up , " doug said .
" but the way i look at it , if i can play in the nba , i can play there the next year just as well as i can next year .
" i feel there are things i can work on .
i feel i can still improve my draft stock by playing in the big east .
there are a lot of areas that i can get better at , and i just felt i " d be more comfortable doing it here in omaha . " .
mcdermott had heard more than once from outsiders that he should turn pro because he had nothing left to prove as a collegian .
the 6 - foot - 8 , 225 - pound forward has been a consensus first - team all - american in each of the past two seasons .
he broke creighton " s career scoring record near the end of the last season .
that argument might have swayed some players , but if there is anything mcdermott has shown the past three seasons it " s that he " s an unconventional superstar .
he remains as unassuming as the day he stepped on campus in june 2010 .
he embraces the attention from an adoring fan base that some players might find stifling .
it " s that fan base , mcdermott said , that figured prominently into his decision .
" i care so much about creighton , " he said .
" there are a lot of people around here that believed in me .
this whole fan base has been with me from the start .
i felt like i owed them one more year . " .
mcdermott said the opportunity to play in the new conference became more of a factor as he got deeper into the decision - making process .
he admitted had creighton remained in the missouri valley it might have made it easier to turn pro .
but the opportunity to play in the big east , and perhaps prove a few people wrong , was too much to pass up .
" i feel there are a lot of people that don " t believe we can be successful in the big east , " mcdermott said .
" if you ask anyone on our team , we feel that we " re going to be capable of doing some damage there .
" that played into my decision a lot .
i care for the guys in this program and i care for the coaches .
i wanted to do what i could to help make this transition a successful one . " .
what didn " t factor into his decision , he said , was the fear that he would be leaving his dad in a tight spot had he bolted for the nba .
as greg mcdermott said thursday , his son " s 23 points and eight rebounds a game will come in handy next season .
but doug said his father and creighton would have been fine had he decided to leave .
" he never pushed for me to stay , " doug said .
in an interview with the world - herald on tuesday , mcdermott indicated he might remain undecided until sunday " s deadline to declare for the draft .
the agony of the decision - making process was apparent as he spoke .
he clearly was undecided .
in discussing his decision wednesday night , mcdermott said he never intended to take so long in making up his mind .
" i apologize for putting people through that , " he said .
in trying to make up his mind , mcdermott said , he put his emotions to a test .
he would go through one day with the idea in mind that he was headed for the nba .
the next day , he would approach things as if he would be returning to creighton .
" i wanted to see how i felt , " mcdermott said .
" i found myself waking up the next day feeling a whole lot better when i was thinking about coming back .
but i went back and forth more times than you can imagine . " .
he said tuesday that he had talked with former creighton all - american kyle korver , now in his 10th season in the nba .
mcdermott also sought the counsel of harrison barnes , his former teammate at ames high school who now is wrapping up his rookie season with the golden state warriors .
" he and i talked before the ncaa tournament , and he told me i should go to the nba if i felt i was 100 percent ready , " mcdermott said .
" that really stuck with me .
" harrison told me that playing in the nba is a completely different world .
the money is nice , but you " re out there fighting for your job every night .
it " s not like college , where you " re playing for the love of the game and for the fans . " .
in the end , those factors appealed more to mcdermott than money .
" i believe i " m going to play in the nba , but i have to do it when i feel i " m 100 percent ready , " he said .
" i feel like i have some unfinished business here at creighton .
i feel like i can be a lot better , and why not do it here where i can have fun for another year .
" i " m so relieved .
i feel like a ton of weight has been lifted off my shoulders .
i can " t put into words how happy i am this is behind me and how excited i am to be coming back .
this just feels right . " .
hansbrough , who came back for his senior season after being crowned the national player of the year , moved into the top spot with a tough leaner in the lane with two evansville defenders hanging on him with 7:42 left in the first half .
jon scheyer and kyle singler each logged 22 points , as the second-ranked duke blue devils fended off a late davidson rally to top the wildcats , 79-67 , at cameron indoor stadium .
scheyer also dished out four assists while singler added six rebounds for duke ( 13-1 ) , which won its fifth straight game and moved to 9-0 at home .
gerald henderson contributed 11 points and seven boards to the winning effort .
the nation 's leading scorer , stephen curry , posted a game-high 29 points to go with eight rebounds and six assists .
but the sharpshooter went just 1-for-8 from three-point range and had seven of davidson 's 17 turnovers in the loss .
andrew lovedale finished with 15 points while pulling down seven boards for the wildcats ( 10-3 ) , whose three losses this season have all come against ranked opponents .
tyler hansbrough had 24 points and seven rebounds in a balanced attack , and the third-ranked north carolina tar heels bounced back from their first loss with a 108-70 rout of the college of charleston cougars .
deon thompson had 15 points for the tar heels ( 14-1 ) , who were beaten at home by boston college , 85-78 , on sunday .
danny green scored 14 points , while ty lawson posted 15 points and eight assists in the win .
wayne ellington contributed 10 points for north carolina .
tony white , jr. had a team-high 16 points for the college of charleston ( 10-3 ) , which has lost two straight after a 10-game win streak .
antwaine wiggins and donavan monroe each had 12 points in the loss .
andy rautins scored 17 points and added six assists , leading 11th-ranked syracuse to an 85-68 win over depaul at the carrier dome .
arinze onuaku totaled 14 points and 12 rebounds for the orange ( 15-1 , 3-0 big east ) , who have won six in a row since falling to cleveland state on december 15 .
paul harris finished with 14 points , nine boards and four blocks , while eric devendorf chipped in 13 points .
dar tucker poured in 18 points for the blue demons ( 8-8 , 0-3 ) , who have dropped four of their last five games .
will walker netted 13 points and mac koshwal pulled down 13 rebounds to go along with a 12-point effort .
matt bouldin scored 26 points , as gonzaga dominated overtime to record an 89-79 win over 15th-ranked tennessee , snapping the volunteers ' 37-game home winning streak .
wednesday 's matchup was the second meeting between the schools this season , as gonzaga also beat tennessee , 83-74 , in the title game of the old spice classic on november 30th .
as for the vols ' home winning streak , the 37 games are a school record and it had been the second-longest active streak in the nation -- second only to notre dame 's 44 .
austin daye finished with 20 points and eight rebounds for gonzaga ( 9-4 ) , which snapped a three-game losing streak .
josh heytvelt added 15 points and 12 boards in the win for the bulldogs .
cameron tatum had 22 points to pace tennessee ( 9-4 ) , which has lost two in a row .
tyler smith added 17 points for the vols before appearing to suffer a left knee injury late in overtime .
wayne chism had a career-high 19 boards and 15 points in the loss .
jeremy lin posted a game-high 27 points with eight assists , as harvard shocked 17th-ranked boston college , 82-70 , at conte forum .
oliver mcnally had 17 points , including a 10-for-11 mark from the foul line , for the crimson ( 8-6 ) , who recorded their first-ever win over a ranked team .
andrew pusar added 13 , while doug miller scored eight points with nine boards .
corey raji posted 16 points for the eagles ( 13-3 ) , who had won 10 consecutive games , including an 85-78 shocker at then-no. 1 north carolina on sunday .
tyrese rice added 14 points , and joe trapani had 12 in a surprising setback .
wesley matthews posted a game-high 23 points thanks to perfect 10-for-10 shooting from the floor , with a team-best six rebounds as 18th-ranked marquette slipped by rutgers , 81-76 , at the rac .
jerel mcneal posted 16 points for the golden eagles ( 14-2 , 3-0 big east ) , winners in six straight games. dominic james added 15 points with six assists .
mike rosario scored 22 points for the scarlet knights ( 9-7 , 0-3 ) , who dropped their fourth in a row , all to ranked opponents .
corey chandler chipped in with 19 points and seven boards while jr inman posted a game-high eight rebounds in the loss .
earl clark finished with 22 points and nine rebounds , as 23rd-ranked louisville opened its big east slate with a 71-57 win over south florida .
edgar sosa added 12 points for the cardinals ( 10-3 , 1-0 big east ) , who have won two in a row since a loss to unlv on new year 's eve .
louisville had opened big east play with a loss in each of the past four seasons , but this season began league play with a road win .
however , the cardinals did so against the only team in the big east -- which has nine teams ranked in the ap top 25 -- with a losing record .
south florida ( 5-9 , 0-2 ) has lost four of its last five games overall , and two in a row , after opening its big east schedule last friday with a loss to syracuse .
dominique jones had 11 points and five boards in the loss for the bulls , while augustus gilchrist also chipped in 11 points .
mcdermott sets scoring record as men's basketball tops drake .
release : 03 / 08 / 2013 .
doug mcdermott became the leading scorer in creighton history and had five points during a pivotal 15 - 2 run as top - seeded creighton defeated drake , 65 - 53 , on friday afternoon in the first quarterfinal of the missouri valley conference tournament .
creighton improved to 25 - 7 on the season and advances to play saturday in a 1 : 35 pm semifinal against indiana state .
drake , which defeated bradley in the play - in round just 18 hours earlier , fell to 15 - 17 .
creighton broke open a 12 - all game with some strong play by will artino to key a 7 - 0 run .
the sophomore center from iowa came off the bench and dunked to start a traditional three - point play .
mcdermott would follow with a jumper to tie the scoring record , and artino answered with another bucket to make it 19 - 12 with 11 : 43 left in the first half .
mcdermott's history - making point came at the foul line , when he sank a free throw with 4 : 43 left in the first half .
it gave him 2 , 117 career points , passing rodney buford's career mark that had stood since 1999 and moving him into 10th in mvc history .
the jays led 33 - 26 at the half , paced by 13 points from mcdermott .
cu dominated the glass 22 - 13 , the paint ( 16 - 10 ) and the second chance points ( 9 - 0 ) in the first 20 minutes , while also outscoring du 12 - 3 off the bench .
creighton would take its first double - digit lead of the day at 45 - 35 on a pair of artino free throws with 13 : 41 to go .
drake countered with a 9 - 2 run and missed a tying trey by richard carter with about 10 : 00 to play .
the jays answered , as echenique threw down a powerful alley - oop during a three - point play and the lead returned to 54 - 46 a short time later on austin chatman's first score of the second half and a mcdermott hoop in transition to move ahead by eight with 7 : 54 to go .
after a timeout , mcdermott hit his third trifecta of the day , and echenique's third three - point play of the day made it 60 - 46 with 6 : 11 to go .
gibbs ended the run with two charity shots , and the jays would keep drake off the scoreboard for nearly seven minutes to pull away .
mcdermott led all players with 23 points while also grabbing seven rebounds .
he made 3 - of - 4 three attempts from 3 - point range .
echenique generated a double - double with 11 points , 11 rebounds and six swats , with most of that production after half .
artino complemented echenique inside by scoring a career - high 14 points and adding six rebounds .
the jays shot 46 . 8 percent for the game ( 22 - 47 ) and owned the glass by a 44 - 26 margin .
drake was paced by 13 points from seth vandeest , while richard carter had 12 points and four assists .
drake shot 35 . 0 percent overall and just 11 - of - 36 after intermission .
the win improved creighton to 41 - 20 all - time in mvc tournament play , easily the most victories by any team in event history .
the jays are 19 - 12 all - time in the quarterfinal round , and 5 - 2 all - time vs . drake in the event .
hansbrough sets scoring record in victory .
top-ranked north carolina waited for tyler hansbrough to make history , then cruised to its latest lopsided victory .
hansbrough scored 20 points thursday night , breaking north carolina 's career scoring record , and the tar heels beat visiting evansville , 91-73 .
hansbrough , the reigning national player of the year , passed phil ford for the record midway through the first half .
ford finished his career in 1978 with 2,290 points .
hansbrough now has 2,301 .
hansbrough needed 9 points coming in and set the record with a bank shot over two defenders with 7 minutes 41 seconds to go .
after the game , the university showed a video montage of hansbrough 's career highlights , and he briefly addressed the crowd .
" i never dreamed i 'd be here and be the all-time leading scorer , " hansbrough said as he stood alone at midcourt .
" this is a great honor to be here and to represent you guys every night in this uniform . " .
ty lawson added 16 points for the tar heels , and danny green had 14 , including the 1,000th of his career .
shy ely had 23 points for the purple aces ( 7-2 ) .
friday , march 08 , 2013 .
arch madness : creighton 65 , drake 5 .
doug mcdermott scored 23 points to become creighton's all - time scoring leader and the top - seeded bluejays defeated drake 65 - 53 on friday in the quarterfinals of the missouri valley conference tournament .
creighton ( 25 - 7 ) will play the winner of friday's second semifinal between evansville and indiana state .
will artino scored 14 points off the bench and gregory echenique had 11 points , 11 rebounds and six blocked shots for creighton , which enjoyed a 44 - 26 rebounding edge .
grant gibbs had eight of the bluejays' 11 assists .
mcdermott , a junior , now has 2 , 129 points - - 13 more than rodney buford , who played for the bluejays from 1995 - 99 .
richard carter scored 14 points and seth vandeest scored 13 for the ninth - seeded bulldogs ( 15 - 17 ) .
jordan clarke had 10 rebounds for drake , which reached the quarterfinal by beating bradley on thursday night .
tyler hansbrough scored 20 points to break north carolina 's career scoring record and help the top-ranked tar heels remain unbeaten with a 91-73 victory over evansville on thursday night .
the reigning national player of the year finished 7-for-14 from the field and had nine rebounds for north carolina ( 10-0 ) , which shook off a slow start and stretched the lead to double figures shortly after hansbrough passed phil ford for the record midway through the first half .
ford , now an assistant coach with the nba 's charlotte bobcats , finished his career in 1978 with 2,290 points .
hansbrough , who needed nine points coming in , tied ford on a jumper from the left wing with 14:05 left in the first half .
he set the record by muscling in a bank shot over two defenders with 7:41 to go .
ty lawson added 16 points for the tar heels , while danny green had 14 , including the 1,000th of his career .
shy ely scored 23 points for the purple aces ( 7-2 ) .
creighton defeats drake 65 - 53 in mvc tournament .
mar . 8 5 : 46 pm est .
doug mcdermott scored 23 points to become creighton's all - time scoring leader and the top - seeded bluejays defeated drake 65 - 53 on friday in the quarterfinals of the missouri valley conference tournament .
in saturday's semifinals , creighton ( 25 - 7 ) will play no . 5 seed indiana state , which defeated evansville 51 - 50 on friday .
will artino scored 14 points off the bench and gregory echenique had 11 points , 11 rebounds and six blocked shots for creighton , which enjoyed a 44 - 26 rebounding edge .
grant gibbs had eight of the bluejays' 11 assists .
mcdermott , a junior , now has 2 , 129 points -- 13 more than rodney buford , who played for the bluejays from 1995 - 99 .
richard carter scored 14 points and seth vandeest scored 13 for the ninth - seeded bulldogs ( 15 - 17 ) .
jordan clarke had 10 rebounds for drake , which reached the quarterfinal by beating bradley on thursday night .
hansbrough broke unc 's career scoring record the carolina way .
during the spring of 1977 , north carolina coach dean smith invited his star guard phil ford , who had just completed his junior season , into his office .
smith told ford that he had done some research on where ford would be selected in the upcoming nba draft. based on that information , he recommended to ford that he leave school .
ford did n't even have to think about it .
he told smith right away that he was n't interested .
" at the time , a lot of people were n't doing that , so going pro was n't something i had even considered at all , " ford says .
" the financial situation was different back then as well .
at the time , my parents were teachers , so getting my degree was very important to me .
the opportunity was n't worth me not getting my degree . " .
last april , tyler hansbrough faced a similar decision , but under much different circumstances .
hansbrough plays in an era when not only is it common for undergraduates to turn pro , but in some circles a player is considered a failure if he stays past his junior year .
needless to say , he faced a financial opportunity much greater than the one ford confronted three decades ago .
hansbrough spent two full weeks torturing himself over the impending decision .
when hansbrough finally told roy williams he wanted to return for his senior year , he felt like the weight of the world was off his shoulders .
he was so relieved that he did n't even leave the weight room when williams asked him to come to his office so they could craft a press release .
" it was a stressful process , " hansbrough said in mid-october .
" you 're thinking about what you 're going to do with the rest of your life .
every time i thought about leaving , i thought about how much i 'd miss coming home , living with my teammates and doing a lot of the fun things we do .
i just felt like coming back would be the best situation for me . " .
in considering that life decision , it 's doubtful hansbrough gave much thought to the chance he would have to become north carolina 's alltime scoring leader if he returned .
still , given the century 's worth of tradition that has reigned in chapel hill , it was no small feat that hansbrough accomplished thursday night , when he broke ford 's school career scoring mark with less than eight minutes to play in the first half of north carolina 's game against evansville .
north carolina has established itself as the gold standard of college basketball , and in the soft-spoken , hard-charging , 6-foot-9 power forward from poplar bluff , missouri , this proud program has a worthy standard bearer .
ford is correct when he says that people are n't appreciative enough of hansbrough 's skills , but there is no doubt that what sets this young man apart is the intensity with which he plays .
if ford was a classical symphony , hansbrough is a heavy metal rock concert , powering , jostling , banging , and always , always out-hustling his opponent en route to the basket .
it is instructive that while hansbrough remains ninth on the acc 's alltime scoring list , he is already the league 's career leader in free throws attempted .
if he stays healthy , he will likely leave north carolina as the school 's alltime rebounds king .
more than anything , though , tyler hansbrough deserves this record because he came back to school .
this is not to disparage players like michael jordan , antawn jamison and rashad mccants who might have had a shot at ford 's mark had they stayed .
but at a place like north carolina , which embodies team play , the scoring record should belong to a four-year player .
hansbrough would probably not have been a top-five draft pick had he left , but it 's unlikely he will signifcantly improve his draft status by playing another year .
also , at the time hansbrough made his decision he was assuming that at least one of his fellow undergraduates , and as many as three of them , would be turning pro , diminishing the tar heels ' chances of winning a championship .
hansbrough came back anyway , and for all the right reasons .
ford also points out that because freshmen were not eligible to play varsity ball from 1954-73 , a huge swath of mega talents who suited up for unc did n't have the chance to hold onto this record -- including the man ford passed , lenny rosenbluth , who still holds the school 's record for career scoring average ( 26.9 ) and is fourth in points scored .
hansbrough is sixth on the school 's career scoring average list at 20.2 .
still , it takes a special individual to eclipse a record that has stood at a place like north carolina for 30 years .
ford remembers little about the night he passed rosenbluth .
he believes he broke the record late in the first half , the game was not interrupted , and neither he nor rosenbluth had much to say about it .
in fact , rosenbluth was n't even there that night .
when i asked ford if he still has the game ball , he said he thought he might , but he has moved so much in recent years ( he worked as an assistant coach for the detroit pistons and new york knicks before joining the charlotte bobcats last year ) that he thinks the ball may be packed away somewhere .
" to be honest , i was just happy to get it over with , " ford says .
" i did n't want anything distracting from the team . " .
if the circumstances were different than they were in 1978 , the central tenets of the carolina way have endured , from rosenbluth to ford to hansbrough .
while offering his congratulations to hansbrough , ford is quick to add that the career scoring record is the least important mark at north carolina .
" we never cared who scored the ball , " he says , " as long as someone with the carolina jersey got the ball in the basket . " .
tyler hansbrough would be the first to agree , even as he jostles and bangs his way towards history .
mcdermott fuels creighton past drake in mvc tournament opener .
posted : friday , march 8 , 2013 2 : 39 pm .
doug mcdermott scored 23 points friday and became creighton " s all - time leading scorer in helping the bluejays to a 65 - 53 victory over drake at the quarterfinals of the missouri valley tournament .
mcdermott broke rodney buford " s school scoring record of 2 , 116 points with a free throw with 4 : 43 to play in the first half .
mcdermott now has 2 , 129 points heading into saturday " s semifinals against the winner of friday " s second quarterfinal between evansville and indiana state .
creighton also got 14 points from backup center will artino , while starting center gregory echenique scored 11 points , all in the second half , to help the top - seeded bluejays shake the stubborn bulldogs .
drake , which had defeated bradley in thursday " s play - in round , hung with creighton for about 30 minutes before running out of gas and ending its season 15 - 17 .
creighton , with more than 6 , 000 fans cheering it on at the scottrade center , improved to 25 - 7 .
seth vandeest led drake with 13 points , while richard carter added 12 for the bulldogs .
creighton got five points from echenique in the first 3 minutes of the second half as the bluejays added a point to their 33 - 26 halftime lead when the center converted a three - point play to make it 41 - 33 .
artino picked up the slack in the first half as he scored seven points .
five came in a 7 - 0 run that allowed the bluejays to go from being tied with the bulldogs at 12 - 12 to a 19 - 12 lead .
artino struck again in the second half , scoring four straight points on a dunk and two free throws that allowed creighton to open a 45 - 36 lead with 13 : 41 to play .
drake got baskets from carter and ben simons to close within six again , then made it a 45 - 42 game when simons buried a 3 - pointer from the corner with 11 minutes to play .
artino " s putback on the next possession put creighton up 47 - 42 but vandeest " s basket pulled drake back within three .
after a creighton turnover , drake had a chance to tie but richard carter couldn " t convert an open look , 3 - point shot .
echenique " s three - point play stretched the creighton lead to 50 - 44 , and the bluejays got baskets from austin chatman and mcdermott on their next two possessions to make it 54 - 46 with 7 : 54 to play .
mcdermott then buried a 3 - point shot coming off a screen to make it 57 - 46 with 7 : 02 remaining .
after echenique blocked a shot on drake " s end , he turned a rebound into a three - point play to make it 60 - 46 .
two grant gibbs free throws hiked the run to 12 - 0 , making it 62 - 46 before drake snapped its scoreless string with two free throws with 1 : 41 to play .
hansbrough breaks 30-year-old unc scoring mark .
forward tyler hansbrough broke north carolina 's all-time scoring record in thursday 's game against evansville .
phil ford 's school mark of 2,290 points set in 1978 held strong amongst a plethora of talented tar heels over the years , but hansbrough , who came back for his senior season after being crowned the national player of the year , moved into the top spot with a tough leaner in the lane with two purple aces defenders hanging on him with 7:42 left in the first half .
the game was stopped and ford was on hand to congratulate hansbrough at half-court .
the missouri native suffered through a shin injury earlier in the season that forced him to miss four games .
in the five games he played before thursday 's action , hansbrough averaged a team-high 22.8 points to go with 7.2 rebounds .
in 113 career games prior to thursday , the forward has logged 20.2 points and 8.6 rebounds in just under 31 minutes an outing , while doing a lot of damage at the free throw line with nearly nine attempts per game .
hansbrough , who has an outside shot at edging duke great j.j. redick for the all-time acc scoring record ( 2,769 points ) , has succeeded in just about every statistical category , though he is still searching for the elusive fifth national title for the program , which moved to 10-0 after its 91-73 drubbing of evansville .
hansbrough finished the game with 20 points and nine rebounds .
2013 mvc tournament results and bracket : creighton , wichita st . move on .
on mar 8 2013 , 11 : 55p .
the missouri valley conference , aka "arch madness" , certainly lived up to its nickname on friday .
eight teams competed in the quarterfinal round , and we've already had one memorable last - second game .
now there's just four teams left fighting for the automatic bid on saturday .
let's recap friday's action .
no . 1 creighton bluejays 65 , no . 9 drake bulldogs 53 .
doug mcdermott put on a show as usual , scoring 23 points and becoming the school's all - time leader in points scored .
he had help from his teammates , as well , as gregory echenique finished with a double - double ( 11 points , 11 rebounds ) .
the bulldgos never let this game turn into a blowout , but they never came close enough to make creighton sweat , either .
the bluejays will play indiana state on saturday .
hansbrough breaks unc career scoring record .
phil ford stood at midcourt , waiting for tyler hansbrough to take the microphone and address the home crowd .
as the reigning national player of the year walked up , ford playfully bowed in reverence before giving him a hug .
now even the famed point guard who flawlessly ran dean smith 's " four corners " offense is looking up at hansbrough as the storied program 's all-time leading scorer .
hansbrough scored 20 points thursday night to break ford 's 30-year-old mark and help top-ranked north carolina beat evansville 91-73 , a game that was completely overshadowed by the 6-foot-9 senior 's record pursuit .
he needed just nine points coming in , making the record an almost certainty considering that he 's failed to reach double figures just six times in his career .
but that did n't mean hansbrough was oblivious to all the attention about a record that had stood through the careers of names like michael jordan , james worthy and antawn jamison .
" i 'm usually not nervous before games , and i was a little nervous before tonight just because i felt like there was a lot of pressure , " said hansbrough , who sat between ford and coach roy williams during the postgame news conference .
" one thing for me , i did n't want us to strictly focus on trying to break a scoring record .
we had a game and i was trying to do whatever i could to help the team . " .
hansbrough finished 7-for-14 from the field and had nine rebounds for north carolina ( 10-0 ) , which shook off a slow start and stretched the lead to double figures against the purple aces ( 7-2 ) shortly after hansbrough passed ford midway through the first half .
ford , now an assistant coach to fellow tar heel alumnus larry brown with the nba 's charlotte bobcats , finished his career in 1978 with 2,290 points .
" i think everyone who knows me knows how much i love this program and to be a small part of this historic moment for tyler is a dream come true for me , " ford said .
" i would n't have missed it for the world .
" it 's an honor to be compared in the same breath with tyler .
when i look at how hard he plays and how he listens to coach williams , as a player , that 's what i tried to do . " .
hansbrough tied ford on a jumper from the left wing with 14:05 left in the first half , then set the record by muscling in a bank shot over james haarsma and pieter van tongeren with 7:41 to go .
as soon as the record-setting shot went through the net , officials briefly stopped the game to allow ford , williams and athletics director dick baddour to present hansbrough with the game ball .
students who carried small signs saying " phil ford 2,290 " on one side turned it around to reveal " tyler 2,291 + " on the other .
hansbrough waved to acknowledge the roaring crowd and handled the historic moment with his typically reserved demeanor , though he seemed eager to get back to the game and away from the focus being on him .
after the game , the school showed a video montage of hansbrough 's career highlights that included congratulations from several former players .
that 's when hansbrough took the microphone from ford and emotionally addressed the crowd .
" i never dreamed i 'd be here and be the all-time leading scorer , " hansbrough said as he stood alone at midcourt .
" this is a great honor to be here and to represent you guys every night in this uniform . " .
it was a moment that fellow senior and roommate bobby frasor said showed how much hansbrough appreciated the record even though he did n't want to dwell on it in recent days .
" i 've never seen him tear up or choke up like that , " frasor said .
" but tyler really does care about all this stuff and he knows what he accomplished is pretty special . " .
still , the tar heels seemed a little tight and the home crowd anxious to see hansbrough set the record early .
but in the minutes afterward , the tar heels settled down and outscored evansville 22-10 the rest of the half to take a 46-28 lead .
it lightened the mood enough that williams - who said he was counting down a player 's points in his head for probably the first time - was able to tease hansbrough on the bench after he missed a two-handed dunk on his first shot following the record .
" i said , 'boy , i 'm really glad that 's not the basket that would 've broken the record , ' " he said with a laugh .
the tar heels maintained a comfortable margin the rest of the way , cracking the 90-point mark for the seventh straight game .
hansbrough left the game for good with the tar heels leading 83-58 with 5:33 to play .
he still has a chance this season to pass sam perkins for the program 's career rebounding record and break the atlantic coast conference career scoring mark set by duke 's j.j. redick in 2006 .
" whatever tyler gets , he deserves , " evansville coach marty simmons said .
" i 've been a big fan of his since he was in high school .
it 's good to see guys that work the hardest be rewarded the most . " .
ty lawson added 16 points for the tar heels , while danny green had 14 , including the 1,000th of his career .
shy ely scored 23 points to lead evansville , which was off to its best start since going 10-1 in 1981-82 .
the purple aces were playing the no. 1 team for the first time since 1980 and just the third time ever .
mcdermott sets cu scoring record .
found march 08 , 2013 .
doug mcdermott became the leading scorer in creighton history and had five points during a pivotal 15 - 2 run as top - seeded creighton defeated drake , 65 - 53 , on friday afternoon in the first quarterfinal of the missouri valley conference tournament .
creighton improved to 25 - 7 on the season and advances to play saturday in a 1 : 35 pm semifinal against the winner of the evansville - indiana state semifinal .
drake , which defeated bradley in the play - in round just 18 hours earlier , fell to 15 - 17 .
creighton broke open a 12 - all game with some strong play by will artino to key a 7 - 0 run .
the sophomore center from iowa came off the bench and dunked to start a traditional three - point play .
mcdermott would follow with a jumper to tie the scoring record , and artino answered with another bucket to make it 19 - 12 with 11 : 43 left in the first half .
mcdermott's history - making point came at the foul line , when he sank a free throw with 4 : 43 left in the first half .
it gave him 2 , 117 career points , passing rodney buford's career mark that had stood since 1999 and moving him into 10th in mvc history .
the jays led 33 - 26 at the half , paced by 13 points from mcdermott .
cu dominated the glass 22 - 13 , the paint ( 16 - 10 ) and the second chance points ( 9 - 0 ) in the first 20 minutes , while also outscoring du 12 - 3 off the bench .
creighton would take its first double - digit lead of the day at 45 - 35 on a pair of artino free throws with 13 : 41 to go .
drake countered with a 9 - 2 run and missed a tying trey by richard carter with about 10 : 00 to play .
the jays answered , as echenique threw down a powerful alley - oop during a three - point play and the lead returned to 54 - 46 a short time later on austin chatman's first score of the second half and a mcdermott hoop in transition to move ahead by eight with 7 : 54 to go .
after a timeout , mcdermott hit his third trifecta of the day , and echenique's third three - point play of the day made it 60 - 46 with 6 : 11 to go .
gibbs ended the run with two charity shots , and the jays would keep drake off the scoreboard for nearly seven minutes to pull away .
mcdermott led all players with 23 points while also grabbing seven rebounds .
he made 3 - of - 4 three attempts from 3 - point range .
echenique generated a double - double with 11 points , 11 rebounds and six swats , with most of that production after half .
artino complemented echenique inside by scoring a career - high 14 points and adding six rebounds .
the jays shot 46 . 8 percent for the game ( 22 - 47 ) and owned the glass by a 44 - 26 margin .
drake was paced by 13 points from seth vandeest , while richard carter had 12 points and four assists .
drake shot 35 . 0 percent overall and just 11 - of - 36 after intermission .
the win improved creighton to 41 - 20 all - time in mvc tournament play , easily the most victories by any team in event history .
the jays are 19 - 12 all - time in the quarterfinal round , and 5 - 2 all - time vs . drake in the event .
millom double murder : man charged with killing mother and sister .
8 : 56am monday 10th june 2013 .
a man has been charged with the murder of his mother and sister in millom .
john jenkin , 23 , of newton street , millom was arrested saturday morning after police found two women dead in a house .
the victims have been identified as mother alice mcmeekin , 58 , of newton street , millom and her 20 - year - old daughter kathryn jenkin of aberdare , south wales .
police have this morning charged him and he will appear before furness district magistrates .
he has also been charged with animal cruelty after the family dog was discovered dead .
cumbria double murder : son suspected of killing mother and sister 'had begged to stay locked up in mental hospital' .
sunday , 9 june 2013 .
john jenkin , 23 , had been sectioned after an apparent suicide attempt in the week before the double murder .
his sister katie and mother alice mcmeekin were found dead at their home in millom .
authorities say a 35-year-old new bedford man stabbed his ex-girlfriend and his own mother to death during a bloodbath inside his mom 's apartment and left the bodies to rot for days .
gary gomes , 35 , was arrested yesterday and will be arraigned today in new bedford district court on two counts of murder and one count of kidnapping in connection with the homicides , according to the bristol district attorney 's office .
the bodies of robyn mendes , 48 , gomes ' ex-girlfriend , and gomes ' mother , catherine gomes , 61 , were found by police and firefighters yesterday in a second-floor apartment on independent street , said da spokesman gregg miliote .
both women had been stabbed to death and their bodies had been there for " days , " miliote said .
catherine gomes lived in that apartment , he said .
police and firefighters were called to the address after neighbors reported a strong smell of natural gas .
a gas stove had been left on and a space heater was running , miliote said .
gomes was arrested at a philip street apartment yesterday where mendes lives , miliote said .
police say gomes had allegedly barricaded himself in a room with another person .
miliote said gomes was on probation when he was arrested .
the standard-times of new bedford is reporting today that gomes has a lengthy criminal history .
he had just been released from the bristol county house of correction in late 2008 after serving time on a 2006 conviction of assault with intent to murder , the newspaper reported .
robyn mendes was the victim in that case .
in 2005 , he was charged with assault and battery on mendes with a dangerous weapon , according to court records , which indicate he grabbed her by the throat , threw her down , then held a knife to her throat and told her , " you 're never going to leave me , " the newspaper reported .
he was sentenced to 2 years , with 9 months to serve in that case .
john jenkin : goth son held as mum and sister killed .
10 jun 2013 09 : 10 .
john jenkin , 23 , was arrested near the terraced house where alice mcmeekin , 58 , and katie jenkin , 20 , and a dead dog , thought to be the family's pet collie , were discovered .
a goth was being questioned on suspicion of murder yesterday after his mother and sister were found dead at home .
john jenkin , 23 , was arrested near the terraced house where alice mcmeekin , 58 , and katie jenkin , 20 , and a dead dog , thought to be the family's pet collie , were discovered .
police were called by neighbours at breakfast time on saturday after they heard piercing screams coming from the house .
one said : "i heard screaming , really high - pitched screams in the early hours .
then later i heard more screaming .
it sounded like someone telling a dog to shut up . " .
alice lived in the pebble - dashed terrace in millom , cumbria , with unemployed john .
the neighbour described him as a goth and he is said to have recently been in hospital .
katie was visiting her mum from cardiff , where she was at university .
a close friend of the dead mum said : "i can't believe it .
they all looked after each other after alice separated from her husband in the 1990s .
we were so close that katie thought of my mum as a second mum .
"john was a good kid , never one of those to get into trouble .
he idolised his mum and his sister .
his little sister was his world , and his mum was too . " .
alice was brought up in millom , where her father ran a greengrocer's and a fish shop .
she returned to her home town 12 weeks ago after a four year spell living in cardiff .
friends noticed she had lost weight and looked frail .
it is thought she may have been suffering from cancer .
another neighbour added : "she went down to wales to give her kids a better life .
katie got into cardiff university , i think , and john was at college doing something in special effects .
"when alice came home , john came with her .
as far as i know he didn't have a girlfriend .
katie still lived in wales and had been going out with her boyfriend for two years .
"she came up for the weekend on friday .
alice met her at the station . " .
security worker alice had recently been upset by the death of one of her four cats and had taken in a collie dog called fenn .
the friend said she was "bubbly" when she saw her on friday .
she added : "we were chatting for about half an hour .
she told me katie was coming and she was so looking forward to it . " .
cumbria police have not disclosed how alice and katie died .
a police spokesman said : "we do not suspect anyone else to be involved . " .
detective chief inspector paul duhig said : "events such as these are rare in cumbria .
we are doing all we can to bring the offender to justice . " .
a man with a long history of domestic violence has been accused of stabbing his mother and a former girlfriend to death and leaving their bodies in an apartment for several days .
the unlit stove in the independence street apartment had been left on full blast , authorities said , filling it with enough natural gas to cause a significant explosion .
the body of katherine gomes , 61 , and robyn norma mendes , 48 , were discovered on tuesday when police and firefighters responded to calls about the smell of natural gas , according to the bristol district attorney 's office. a space heater had been left turned to high , but it did not ignite the gas .
the man , gary gomes , 35 , is expected to be arraigned today in new bedford district court on two counts of murder and one count of kidnapping .
gomes was arrested on tuesday after investigators said they found him barricaded in a room in mendes 's apartment on philip street with her 12-year-old daughter .
he was with the girl for at least several hours before police arrived , according to gregg miliote , a spokesman for the bristol district attorney .
gomes has been incarcerated at least three times for violent crimes against women in the last four years and at one point was held for 90 days without bail as a danger to society , according to court records .
the alleged fatal stabbing would be at least his third attack against mendes .
in 2005 , gomes was convicted of beating mendes , holding a knife to her throat , and telling her , " you 're never going to leave me , " according to court records .
gomes served 9 months of a 2-1/2 year sentence .
he was released in 2006 and attacked mendes again , dragging her into the woods .
police rescued her with the aid of dogs , according to court records .
mendes went back to prison for 2-1/2 years and was recently released .
in 2004 , gomes was charged with stealing a $ 500 guitar from his sister , jean .
gomes ran into jean and his mother a few days later and he attacked his sister , according to court records .
" defendant became violent and began to choke the victim with both hands around her neck , " the records state .
son suspected of killing mother and sister 'had begged to stay locked up in mental hospital' .
john jenkin , 23 , released from secure mental hospital against his wishes .
his sister katie jenkin , 20 , and mother alice mcmeekin , 58 , were found dead in a home in millom , cumbria .
relative said he had history of mental health problems .
police not searching for any other suspects in connection with double murders .
published : 16 : 05 gmt , 9 june 2013 | updated : 06 : 55 gmt , 10 june 2013 .
a man said to have been released from a secure mental hospital against his wishes was yesterday being questioned over the murders of his mother and sister .
john jenkin , 23 , had been sectioned after an apparent suicide attempt in the week before the double murder .
according to a relative , he had a history of mental health problems and had pleaded in vain to be kept locked up because he feared harming himself or someone else .
police were called to the family's terraced house in millom , cumbria , at 8 . 40am on saturday and found the bodies of alice mcmeekin , 58 , and her university student daughter katie jenkin , 20 .
the family's new pet collie , fenn , was also killed .
jenkin , who was described as a goth , was arrested nearby on suspicion of murder .
he was said to have doted on his mother and younger sister , but the heavy metal fan was also obsessed with the occult .
cumbria police have not revealed how the women died , although no gun was used in the murders .
friends and neighbours were shocked by the murders of the animal - loving divorced mother - of - two and her daughter , who was studying in south wales and was on a weekend visit home .
yesterday a neighbour recalled seeing the suspect in the street at 3am on saturday and also hearing screams coming from the pebble - dashed house .
'i was coming back home at 3am with my girlfriend and i was walking up the back street and he was walking around and i looked at his face and it was like looking into space , there was nothing there , ' he said .
'then i went home and i heard a lot of screams .
it sounded like the screams of a dog .
i went into my backyard and i heard these piercing screams i will never forget . ' .
he did not contact the police , but more noise was heard at around 8am .
'it sounded like someone telling a dog to shut up , ' said the neighbour .
police were called and found the bodies .
jenkin , who is unemployed , spent much of his time on his computer and listening to music .
according to a relative , he had suffered mental health problems for some time .
'he's had a very dark past , but i don't want people to think he is some kind of monster , i just feel sorry for him , ' she said .
the relative said he was sectioned under the mental health act for attempting to slit his wrists and then allowed home again in the days before the tragedy .
she said he had told health workers that he feared he would harm himself or someone else if he did not stay in a secure psychiatric unit .
'john begged people for help , but he didn't get it , ' she said .
friends said john jenkin was close to his family .
one friend , who asked not to be named , said : 'he idolised his mum and his sister .
his little sister was his world , and his mum was too .
they all looked after each other .
he was a good kid , never one of those to go out and get into trouble . ' .
mrs mcmeekin was brought up in millom and was the daughter of a greengrocer .
she moved to merthyr tydfil , south wales , four years ago 'to give her kids a better life' , but returned to her home town with john 12 weeks ago .
she worked for the prison service and 'would do anything for anybody' , according to the friend .
katie , who was in a steady relationship with a boyfriend , stayed in wales to continue her media studies course .
'she was a happy , beautiful girl with the world in front of her , ' said the friend .
she recalled chatting on friday to mrs mcmeekin , who was looking forward to her daughter's visit .
the new bedford man arrested last night on charges of double homicide killed his mother and ex-girlfriend , according to police and prosecutors .
the suspect , gary gomes , 35 , of new bedford , has a lengthy record of domestic abuse , including convictions for kidnapping and attempted murder .
he was currently on probation after his latest release from criminal custody .
the victims in the case have been identified as robyn mendes , 48 - an ex-girlfriend of mr. gomes - and catherine gomes , 61 , the defendant 's mother .
gregg milliote , spokesman for the bristol county district attorney 's office , said both women were stabbed multiple times at the independent street apartment in which they were found .
ms. gomes was the tenant at the apartment .
following his arraignment in new bedford district court today , mr. gomes was ordered held without bail .
at the arraignment , prosecutor aaron strojny said ms. mendes was stabbed multiple times while in bed .
" i ( heart ) you " was written in blood on the wall and the suspect 's id was found on a pillow , he said , and alleged the suspect later dressed ms. mendes and applied makeup .
ms. gomes ' body was found under a mattress in a different room .
she had last been seen saturday morning , prosecutors said , and when her employer called the apartment later that day to inquire why she had not reported to work , a man who identified himself as gary said his mother had gone away for a few days .
mr. gomes was found tuesday night barricaded in a dwelling on phillips road in the north end where ms. mendes lived .
ms. mendes ' 12-year-old daughter was also in that dwelling at the time .
police say gomes had been at that location for " a few hours " before his arrest .
they found a knife , which they identified as the murder weapon , behind a bookshelf .
mr. milliote said prosecutors believe mr. gomes intended to kill one other person last night , although he would n't say who that person was or what evidence led prosecutors to believe that .
mr. gomes had been released from the bristol county house of correction in late 2008 after serving time on a 2006 conviction of assault with intent to murder .
ms. mendes was the victim in that case .
in 2005 , he was charged with assault and battery on ms. mendes with a dangerous weapon , according to court records , which indicate he grabbed her by the throat , threw her down , then held a knife to her throat and told her , " you 're never going to leave me . " .
he was sentenced to 2 1/2 years , with 9 months to serve in that case .
court records also indicate a previous arrest in which mr. gomes was accused of assault and battery on his sister after she accused him of stealing her guitar .
his mother was a witness to that incident .
ms. mendes had obtained restraining orders against mr. gomes in 2005 and 2006 , according to court records .
the victims ' bodies were discovered inside the independent street apartment tuesday afternoon after the building 's landlord detected the odor of natural gas emanating from the second floor .
police said that after smelling gas , the landlord , who has not been identified , sent his adult son upstairs to investigate .
the son entered the apartment and found the bodies , police said .
the gas stove was running with no flame , police said , and an electric heater had been turned on in the apartment .
provisional trial date set for cumbria double murder accused .
published at 12 : 45 , wednesday , 12 june 2013 .
a provisional trial date has been set in the case of a son accused of killing his mother , sister and pet dog .
a preliminary hearing for john jenkin , 23 , charged with the murders of his mum alice mcmeekin , 58 , and sister katie jenkin , 20 , took place at preston crown court this morning .
jenkin was due to appear via videolink from hmp preston but did not do so as he was considered a risk to his own safety and that of other people , said crown prosecutor susan carter .
the case was heard in his absence and a provisional trial date was set for october 28 , with a duration of three days .
the bodies of ms mcmeekin and miss jenkin were found in their house in newton street , millom , at about 8 . 40am on saturday .
the family's border collie , named fenn , was found dead in the backyard of the house .
jenkin , who was arrested at millom pier at around 9 . 35am , is also facing a charge of causing unnecessary suffering to an animal in relation to the dog's death .
no application was made for bail and no plea was entered .
a plea and case management hearing will be held on september 6 .
judge anthony russell qc asked for psychiatric reports to be completed on jenkin before the next hearing .
gary gomes of new bedford , massachusetts , accused in the deaths of two women found in a city apartment , appeared in court today .
police say the landlord 's son found the bodies yesterday after entering the second-floor apartment to investigate an odor of gas .
35-year-old gomes faces two counts of murder after his mother and his ex-girlfriend were found stabbed to death inside a new bedford home yesterday afternoon .
gomes was arrested last night on charges of murder and kidnapping .
61-year-old kathryn gomes and 48-year-old robin mendes are the victims .
police believe finding gomes so quickly may have saved other lives in this case .
10 june 2013 last updated at 14 : 00 gmt .
john jenkin accused of millom mother and sister murder .
a man has been remanded in custody after being charged with the murder of his mother and sister in cumbria .
the bodies of alice mcmeekin , 58 , and kathryn jenkin , 20 , were found at a terraced house in newton street , millom , on saturday .
both had suffered head injuries .
the family dog had also been killed .
john jenkin , 23 , was remanded in his absence by barrow magistrates , after the court heard he was deemed a risk to himself and potentially to others .
no pleas were entered and a bail hearing was scheduled for wednesday at preston crown court .
'untimely death' .
mr jenkin , of newton street , millom , who arrested an hour after the bodies were discovered in a distressed state , has also been charged with animal cruelty .
friends of kathryn jenkin , known as katie , have described her as a "bright and much - liked student . " .
miss jenkin was a student at the university of south wales in cardiff .
gill sandford , dean of the faculty of creative and cultural industries , said : "the university's staff and students are extremely sad to hear of the untimely death of katie jenkin .
"she was a bright , much - liked and promising student and our thoughts are with her family .
"as a close community we will come together to support our colleagues and students at this difficult time . " .
a 35-year-old new bedford man is awaiting a double murder arraignment after police arrested him on charges he killed his mother and ex-girlfriend .
police have identified the victims as 61-year-old katherine gomes , mother of the suspect , and 48-year-old robyn mendes .
gary gomes was arrested late tuesday night at 2088 philip street .
the d.a. 's office says gomes was barricaded inside with a third person .
he has been charged with two counts of murder , and one count of kidnapping .
gomes is scheduled to be arraigned in new bedford district court wednesday .
the bodies of the two women were discovered on the second floor at 24 independent street tuesday afternoon , after someone of the first floor smelled natural gas .
an eyewitness says the gas stove had been turned on .
provisional trial date set for millom double murder accused .
last updated at 11 : 24 , tuesday , 18 june 2013 .
a provisional trial date has been set in the case of a son accused of killing his mother , sister and pet dog in millom .
a preliminary hearing for john jenkin , 23 , charged with the murders of his mother alice mcmeekin , 58 , and sister katie jenkin , 20 , was heard in preston crown court this morning .
jenkin was due to appear via videolink from hmp preston , but did not do so as he was considered a risk to his own safety and that of other people , according to crown prosecutor susan carter .
the case was heard in his absence , and a provisional trial date was set for october 28 with a duration of three days .
the bodies of ms mcmeekin and miss jenkin , were found in their house in newton street , millom , on saturday about 8 . 40am .
an earlier hearing at furness magistrates' court , in barrow , heard they had "severe head injuries" .
the family's border collie , named fenn , was also found beaten to death in the backyard of the house .
jenkin was arrested at millom pier around 9 . 35am .
he faces one charge of causing unnecessary suffering to an animal in relation to the dog's death .
no application for bail was made at yesterday's hearing and no plea was entered .
a plea and case management hearing will be held on september 6 .
judge anthony russell qc asked for psychiatric reports to be completed on jenkin before the next hearing .
at the earlier hearing on monday he was deemed too much of a risk to appear in the dock at furness magistrates' court .
jenkin was brought to the magistrates' court building by a secure van on monday , but did not appear in the dock and no pleas were entered .
miss rachel bates , court clerk , said : "he is at risk of causing harm to himself and causing harm to others as well .
" ( custody ) are having difficulties restraining him and they can't move him from the cell .
"there are extreme difficulties and for the safety of everybody , including the defendant , the best approach is ( to hold the hearing ) in the defendant's absence . " .
the court heard police were called after hearing an argument at the family's home at 8 . 39am on saturday .
seven of jenkin's friends attended court as a show of support .
jenkin had been living in south wales with his mum for the past three years and they had moved back to millom around six weeks ago .
the deaths of two women found in a new bedford home on tuesday have been ruled homicides .
gary gomes , 35 , of new bedford pleaded not guilty to two counts of murder and one count of kidnapping .
he was ordered held without bail and sent to bridgewater state hospital for evaluation .
gomes was found barricaded in a room on philip street .
the victims have been identified as gomes ' mother , katherine , 61 , and his former girlfriend , robyn mendes , 48 .
an odor of natural gas led to the discovery of the bodies in an apartment at 24 independent street .
a landlord sent his adult son to an upstairs unit of the multi-family house at about noon on tuesday .
the man discovered the bodies and called 911 .
man charged with murdering mother and sister in cumbria .
monday 10 jun 2013 10 : 45 am .
a 23 - year - old man has been charged with the murders of his mother and sister .
john jenkin is due in court over the murders of alice mcmeekin , 58 , and kathryn jenkin , 20 .
both women were found dead at their home in newton street , millom , cumbria , on saturday morning , with mr jenkin arrested shortly afterwards .
detectives said ms mcmeekin and her daughter were found with head injuries .
although formal identification has not yet taken place , cumbria police announced the identities of the victims and mr jenkin , who has also been charged with animal cruelty after the family dog was found dead at the house .
he is due before furness district magistrates' court today .
an arraignment has been scheduled for wednesday morning for a new bedford , massachusetts man accused of murdering two women .
gary gomes , 35 , will face murder and kidnapping charges after police found the bodies of two women -- 68 and 48-years-old -- inside an independent street apartment .
neighbors had complained about a possible natural gas leak , which led them to the scene .
when police arrested gomes on tuesday night , he was barricaded inside the apartment with an unidentified person .
new bedford police said they will release more details about the investigation on wednesday afternoon .
the identities of the victims has not yet been released .
man held after sis and mum murdered .
published : 09th june 2013 .
a man was last night being quizzed by cops over the double murders of his mum and sister .
unemployed john jenkin , 23 , was arrested yesterday moments after armed cops arrived following a 999 call .
a new bedford man has been arrested in the slayings of two women whose bodies were found in an apartment after the building 's landlord smelled natural gas .
the bristol district attorney 's office said just after midnight tuesday that 35-year-old gary gomes was arrested at another house where he was found barricaded with a third person .
gomes faces arraignment in new bedford district court on wednesday morning on two murder charges and one kidnapping charge .
the names of the women killed , who were 61 and 48 years old , have not been released .
police lt. jeffrey silva said the landlord 's son found the bodies after entering the second-floor apartment on tuesday afternoon to investigate the odor .
district attorney sam sutter is expected to discuss the case at a news conference already planned wednesday afternoon to discuss developments in a 2003 murder case .
brother double - murder charge .
john jenkin , 23 and from cumbria , has been charged with the murder of his mother and sister .
kathryn jenkin , 20 and from aberdare , and her mother alice mcmeekin , 58 , were found on saturday .
brother charged after aberdare woman found dead .
the brother of a woman from aberdare found dead in cumbria on saturday has been charged with her murder .
23 - year - old john jenkin , of millom , has been charged with the murder of his 58 - year - old mother , alice mcmeekin , and sister , kathryn jenkin , 20 , who is from aberdare .
on saturday 8 june 2013 , at 8 : 39am police were called to a property in newton street where mrs mcmeekin and miss jenkin were tragically found dead with head injuries .
the family dog was also found dead .
john jenkin was arrested on suspicion of murder shortly afterwards .
he will appear at furness district magistrates court this morning .
john jenkin is related to the victims , he is the son of alice mcmeekin and the brother of kathryn jenkin .
- cumbria police .
trial date set for man accused of double murder in millom .
posted : june 12 , 2013 .
a trial date's been set for a millom man accused of murdering his mother and sister .
john jenkin was due to appear via video link at preston crown court today but didn't because he's currently considered too much of a danger to himself and others .
the case continued in his absence and a three day trial hearing was penciled in for october - the 23 - year old's due to enter his plea in september .
the bodies of alice mcmeekin and katie jenkin were found at their newton street home in millom on saturday morning .
they'd suffered severe head injuries .
john jenkin also faces an animal cruelty charge after the family's dog was also found beaten to death .
andrew lopez confesses to murder of zurana horton in brooklyn shooting .
first posted : 10 / 25 / 11 06 : 44 pm et updated : 12 / 25 / 11 05 : 12 am et .
an 18 - year old male confessed to the gang related murder of a brooklyn mother who tried to protect a group of school children from harm by shielding them .
the suspect , andrew lopez , was among three teens arrested on tuesday for the shooting that took place last friday outside a brownsville school that claimed the life of 34 - year old zurana horton .
horton died instantly from a shot in the face and chest when she attempted to protect students from gunfire .
horton was the mother of 12 children .
lopez was reportedly aiming for an 11 - year old girl whom he was in a dispute with over a cell - phone .
the 11 - year old girl survived an injury on her arm and graze wound on her face .
lopez and his brother kristian , who was also arrested , are believed to be members of a gang called 8 block .
police commissioner ray kelly commented on lopez in a briefing .
we're certainly pleased with the fact that the investigation has identified mr . lopez and he's made statements and apparently made a full confession .
browsnville is among the most crime - ridden neighborhoods in the city .
since the shocking shooting , community members , including rev . al sharpton who met with horton's family , have called for an end to gun violence .
teen arrested in shooting of hero brooklyn mom .
posted oct 26 , 2011 8 : 57 am cdt .
an 18 - year - old gang member has confessed to killing a pregnant mom , who died on friday as she shielded a group of children from bullets , but insisted he "did not mean to shoot the ladies , " sources tell the new york daily news .
in addition to zurana horton - who was a mother of 12 - another mom and an 11 - year - old girl were wounded by rooftop sniper andrew lopez , who told police his dozen rounds were intended for members of a rival gang .
lopez has been charged with murder ; his two half - brothers , 17 and 22 , were also arrested .
the mother of a 10-year-old girl killed by a stray bullet on an albany street last year said she heard a loud sound before her daughter cried out " mommy , mommy , i 've been hit , " and then stumbled down the steps of their apartment .
shondell mcallister on tuesday recalled screaming " somebody help me , my daughter 's been shot . " .
mcallister was the first witness called in the trial of 16-year-old jermayne timmons , who is accused of firing the deadly shot from an intersection down the street .
mcallister described to jurors in albany county court the hectic scene on may 29 as she lay her daughter , kathina thomas , on the sidewalk while she bled from a gunshot wound in her back .
after running to find help , mcallister pushed her way back to kathina through emergency workers , only to be told her youngest daughter was already dead .
prosecutor david rossi said timmons is charged with intentional murder because he intended to kill someone , although kathina was n't the target .
in opening statements tuesday , public defender peter lynch said then- 15-year-old timmons was at the scene of the shooting and had a gun , but is n't the one who fired the fatal shot .
lynch said his client had a .32-caliber revolver , while autopsy results concluded that kathina was killed by a .45-caliber bullet .
timmons , who was arrested 12 days after the shooting , faces a maximum sentence of 15 years to life in prison if convicted .
he 's charged with two counts of second-degree murder , one count each of first- and second-degree manslaughter , and criminal possession of a weapon .
according to authorities , the teenager told police he was with a group of people down the street from kathina 's home when they ran into a rival group and timmons ' fired a shot at them .
the bullet missed its intended target and traveled about a block before hitting kathina .
timmons told police he fired when he thought he saw someone in the other group reach for a gun .
he said the gun he used was kept hidden under a shed and used by " everyone in the neighborhood , " and said he and his friends then rode away on the bikes and he put the gun back .
no gun has been recovered .
prosecutors are bringing the case against timmons without a murder weapon , and rossi noted tuesday that the gun was n't available because the defendant had gotten rid of it .
witnesses for the prosecution said a shell casing found at the intersection where the fatal shot was fired matched the bullet removed from kathina 's body .
footage of brooklyn mother's fatal shooting released during trial .
apr 12 , 2013 .
video of brooklyn mother of 13 zurana horton shot and killed in a gang shooting was revealed thursday , according to the n . y . daily news .
the footage shows 34 - year - old horton ( pictured ) picking up her daughter from school on october 21 , 2011 , in brooklyn's brownsville section .
around 2 : 18 p . m . , horton and two other moms are seen waiting at an intersection as a yellow bus pulls up to the curb .
the shooting then breaks out , with horton pushing a child out of the way to take a bullet .
she then grips her chest and collapses to the ground .
prosecutors showed the tragic footage at the trial of the two youths charged with murdering horton .
twenty - year - old andrew lopez has been accused of carelessly firing at rival gang members from a rooftop .
half - brother jonathan carrasquillo is suspected of having directed lopez to kill their enemies .
both are charged with murder , with lopez standing accused of letting off 13 shots in horton's death .
one of the two mothers with horton that day testified at the trial .
"i saw her fall back . . .
i saw blood coming from her , " said unique armstead , who is seen in the video covering her son with her body as the shooting began .
armstead sustained a gunshot wound to her left arm .
armstead said she heard someone say , "he has a gun , " prompting her to take her son inside a nearby corner bodega for safety .
when the coast seemed clear , they reportedly went back out , which is when the shots began .
"i thought it was a brick but it was a bullet , " armstead said .
"i told my son , i think i'm shot . " .
the trial is scheduled to resume monday , with testimony from a man who claims lopez's brother threatened to kill him ; he is reportedly scared to take the stand .
"the man is petrified , " judge vincent delgiudice said .
"the man is an emotional wreck . " .
testimony in the murder trial of an albany teen accused in the shooting death of young kathina thomas continued for the second day on wednesday .
the trial against 16 year-old jerymayne timmons started a bit late after one juror was dismissed because of a family medical emergency .
another delay in the trial was an altercation inside the courtroom .
the albany county sheriff 's department arrested one gentleman who refused to leave the courtroom after being asked to .
the man claimed someone had pushed and shoved him inside .
once the trial resumed , timmons ' 16 year-old best friend took the stand and talked about the community gun described in a police statement .
he said the .32-caliber gun was nicknamed " shaq " referencing the shaquille o'neal 's jersey number .
while on the stand he told jurors that timmons had asked him to tell police they were together until about 9 p.m. on the night of the shooting .
the teen did tell police that originally , and later confessed that he had only been playing basketball with him until about 5 : 00 on the night of may 29th .
jurors also heard testimony from a state police ballistic expert , the emergency room doctor who treated kathina , and the medical examiner who performed the autopsy .
video of brooklyn woman's fatal shooting is played at trial of two men charged in rooftop gunplay .
april 12 , 2013 | 4 : 00am .
rapt jurors yesterday watched surveillance video of the chilling moment that a brooklyn mom was fatally struck by stray gunfire and slowly fell over into a pool of her own blood .
the disturbing evidence was made public at the trial of the two men accused of killing zurana horton from a brownsville rooftop in 2011 .
horton , 34 , was walking with one of her 12 children when andrew lopez , 20 , fired from the rooftop on the orders of his brother jonathan carrasquillo , 24 , prosecutors charge .
also shot were a woman named unique armstead , who was walking near horton , and an 11 - year - old girl who was passing by .
yesterday , armstead told jurors at the brooklyn supreme court trial about the moment she was struck in the shooting , which was allegedly sparked by a gangland territorial beef .
"at the time , i thought it was a brick , but it was a bullet , " testified armstead , who was walking with her son and who can be seen in the video stumbling against a building after she is shot .
when prosecutor seth goldman asked whether she shielded her son with her body , armstead quietly answered , "yes . " .
"when me and my son were on the floor , i noticed mrs . horton fall down .
i honestly thought she was shot in the head .
there was blood . " .
armstead also testified that she heard a group of young men arguing about a gun shortly before the shooting , which matches up with prosecutors' claim that carrasquillo ordered lopez to the roof with the gun after a dispute between their 8 block gang and the rival young guns crew .
the talk of guns had made armstead nervous , especially since she was with her young son .
"i speed - walked to my son , and i held him .
i was scared .
i was trying to get out of harm's way , " she testified .
armstead said she sought safety for herself and her son in a store , but when activity on the street seemed to have settled , she walked back outside - where a bullet went straight through her arm and she saw horton killed .
brooklyn supreme court judge vincent del giudice briefly sealed the courtroom at the request of prosecutors because their next witness had been threatened with death by the alleged shooter's brother .
the fearful witness had entered the courtroom with hood over his head , del giudice said when the courtroom was reopened .
"the man is an emotional wreck , " the judge said before postponing the man's testimony until monday .
a key witness against teenage murder suspect jermayne timmons identified him tuesday as the gunman who killed 10-year-old kathina thomas in may , then twice admitted he lied in his testimony .
elijah coleman , 21 , told jurors in albany county court he and two acquaintances went to west hill on may 29 to " put in some work " and " start trouble . " .
a member of the trio was shot in the foot by rivals on an earlier occasion , he said .
they rode bikes to first and judson streets , he testified , and timmons , now 16 , was armed with a .45 - caliber handgun he had picked up under a trash can at the ida yarbrough apartments in albany .
after a face-off with some rivals who " wanted to fight , " he testified , timmons pulled the trigger .
" jermayne fired the shot , " he said .
kathina , a guyana native in albany less than 16 months , was slain in front of her first street home , near the corner of north lake avenue .
while not disavowing timmons was the shooter , coleman then testified that his third friend , whose shooting they were avenging , actually had shot himself in the foot earlier .
upon cross-examination , coleman then gave a second contradiction , saying he had seen - and never had seen - the .45 - caliber gun timmons allegedly was carrying .
" so which is it ? " deputy public defender peter lynch asked coleman , who in turn said he had seen the gun before .
he admitted he was lying .
when asked about the friend being shot in the foot , he then answered , " i do n't know . " .
at one point , lynch asked coleman , " you just lied to this jury when you told them that , correct ? " .
" yes , " he responded .
during one of the exchanges , assistant district attorney david rossi asked coleman , " are you gon na switch it every time you 're asked the question ? " .
coleman also said that he gave false statements before the case went to trial .
he testified tuesday that he came forward to clear his name in early june , saying he did not shoot the young girl .
meanwhile , coleman testified that he believed the defendant 's name was " jermayne taylor , " yet did identify him in court .
when asked by the prosecution to recall what he was asked before coming to court , he responded he said it was to tell the truth .
rossi laid out the prosecution 's case earlier tuesday in a packed courtroom before judge stephen herrick .
he said timmons and the two acquaintances rode bikes to an area of west hill known as " little miami , " the reason being , " it 's hot - lots of action in that area .
the defendant knew that . " .
rossi said timmons and his two sidekicks were engaged in a staredown with youths at the corner .
he said timmons aimed and missed his target , instead striking the 10-year-old girl less than two seconds later .
" as that little girl lay bleeding to death on the sidewalk , this defendant pedaled off and got rid of the evidence , " rossi said .
the gun has not been recovered .
among prosecutors ' evidence not yet revealed in court is an alleged statement and apology note timmons gave police .
lynch did not deny his client was at first and judson with a loaded handgun when kathina died - or that he fired the weapon .
" as that little girl lay bleeding to death on the sidewalk , this defendant pedaled off and got rid of the evidence , " rossi said .
the gun has not been recovered .
among prosecutors ' evidence not yet revealed in court is an alleged statement and apology note timmons gave police .
lynch did not deny his client was at first and judson with a loaded handgun when kathina died - or that he fired the weapon .
he said it was a .32 - caliber revolver , not a .45 - caliber handgun like the one that killed the girl .
" because he was there , because he did fire a gun , he 's it , " lynch said .
" he 's the patsy . " .
the prosecution 's first witness was kathina 's mother , shondell mcallister , who fought back emotions to recall the night her child died .
she found herself in a crowd that surrounded kathina outside their home .
mcallister said she had to force her way through the people to speak with authorities as they , too , flooded first street .
" i said , 'i 'm her mother. ... .
that 's my baby , ' " she said .
an official looked at her and said : " i 'm very sorry .
she 's dead . " .
to which she replied, .
" i already know she 's dead . " .
mcallister explained how she and her four children moved to albany from guyana in january 2007 and to first street in september of that year .
she recalled her daughter being on the front steps with , among others , a 1-year-old baby .
after kathina was shot , she exclaimed , " ' mommy , mommy , i got hit .
somebody hit me in my back . " ' .
" i said , 'oh , my god , somebody help me .
my daughter has been shot . " ' .
the mother fought tears later tuesday when images of her daughters post-shooting medical treatment were shown in court .
several members of the victim 's family and that of timmons were in court to watch the proceedings .
timmons faces up to 15 years to life if convicted of second-degree murder .
testimony continues today .
jury shown horrific moment innocent mother is shot dead shielding her child when she's caught up in gang attack as she picks up daughter from school .
zurana horton , 34 , a mother of 12 , was fatally shot in 2011 while picking up her daughter , 11 , from school .
a second mother who testified was shot in her arm as well as an 11 - year - old girl .
testimony by a second witness has been delayed after allegedly threatened with death by the brother of the accused gunman .
updated : 19 : 14 gmt , 12 april 2013 .
jurors on thursday watched video capturing the horrific moment a mother was gunned down in broad daylight while picking up her 11 - year - old daughter outside a new york city school .
behind her another mother was seen shot in her arm before staggering against a wall while trying to hide her own son from the alleged gang members' stray gunfire from a nearby rooftop .
this frightening surveillance video was presented at the brooklyn supreme court on thursday during the trial of two men accused in killing zurana horton , 34 , a mother of 12 , in 2011 and wounding two others , including an 11 - year - old girl .
prosecutors say andrew lopez , 20 , an alleged 8 block gang member fired the shots meant for rival gang members from the howard projects while his brother jonathan carrasquillo , 24 , gave the orders .
'when me and my son were on the floor , i noticed mrs horton fall down .
i honestly thought she was shot in the head .
there was blood , ' said unique armstead , who was shot along with an 11 - year - old girl nearby according to the new york post .
mrs armstead says that just before the shots were fired she passed a group of young men arguing on the street about a gun .
her testimony matched prosecutors' claims .
feeling uneasy , she says 'i speed - walked to my son , and i held him .
i was scared .
i was trying to get out of harm's way . ' .
she took her son into a nearby store to wait it out .
when the fight appeared to die down , she says she slipped back onto the street with her son by her side when a stray bullet shot straight into her arm .
she next saw horton fall down dead .
mrs horton is seen sprawled out on the sidewalk beside a pool of blood on the surveillance video .
witnesses are seen cowering in fear around her .
'at the time , i thought it was a brick , but it was a bullet , ' mrs armstead said of her injury .
lopez , who was 18 at the time of the shooting , confessed to being the rooftop sniper according to initial reports by the new york daily news .
the gunman said the shooting near public school 298 in brownsville had stemmed from a turf war between two brooklyn gangs .
lopez told police that 'he did not mean to shoot the ladies , ' the source said .
a second witness had expected to testify in the shooting on thursday as well but after threatened with death by the brother of the alleged gunman , their testimony has been delayed until monday .
'the man is an emotional wreck , ' brooklyn supreme court judge vincent del giudice said , according to the post .
lopez has been linked to a brooklyn gang known as '8 block , ' who police say are engaged in a turf battle with the neighboring young guns gang .
nypd commissioner raymond kelly said : 'we're certainly pleased with the fact that the investigation has identified mr . lopez and he's made statements and apparently made a full confession , ' the daily news reported .
lopez told police he was aiming for rival gang members when a stray bullet hit the mother of 13 who was collecting her children from school .
horton was planning to marry her boyfriend on valentine's day in 2012 .
also arrested were lopez' half - brother , 17 - year - old kristian , and carrasquillo .
all three live in a fifth - floor apartment inside 1800 pitkin ave . , the same building from where the gunman opened fire , police said .
that apartment building is said to be where 8 block got their name , the post reported in 2011 .
carrasquillo was charged with murder , and kristian lopez was arrested for possession of a baseball bat , police said .
andrew lopez had a previous arrest for walking down pitkin ave . brandishing a loaded gun three years ago , sources told the daily news .
the shooting frenzy in which at least 12 shots were fired began just 13 minutes after school finished .
cheanne mcknight , 11 , is recovering from a graze wound to her cheek , while a 31 - year - old brooklyn mom was shot in the arm .
police recovered 12 9 - mm shell casings on the roof of the pitkin avenue apartment and the sidewalk .
emotional testimony and at times lies are what jurors heard tuesday in the trial of jermayne timmons , the teen accused of shooting and killing 10-year-old kathina thomas last may in albany .
prosecutor david rossi began opening statements , talking about what allegedly led jermayne timmons to the west hill neighborhood on may 29 and what led him to allegedly fire the bullet that struck kathina thomas seconds after it was fired from more than a block away .
rossi telling the 7 woman , 5 man jury , " as that little girl lay bleeding on the sidewalk , the defendant , jermayne timmons , pedaled his bike away and got rid of the evidence . " .
he also told the panel that it will not be one witness to make the case , but all of them -- a line whose meaning would soon come into play .
public defender peter lynch admitting that timmons had a gun but then dropping a bombshell , saying that while this case has many facts not in dispute , ultimately it is undisputed that kathina thomas died from a gunshot wound from a .45 caliber ... but jermayne timmons had a .32 .
peter lynch/timmons ' attorney : " i 'm not going to be offering any out-of-court comments on the testimony as we 're proceeding . " .
kathina thomas ' mother shondell mcallister was the first prosecution witness , emotionally describing the shooting scene , and her daughter screaming , " mommy , mommy , i got hit .
something hit me in my back " , then saying " save me , save me mommy " , while her mother told her to stop talking .
the afternoon session began with two of the witnesses district attorney david soares ' office has asked the media not to identify by name .
one was with timmons that night and described him retrieving the so-called community gun and seeing him shoot it , but also admitted that he lied three times to police and also admitted to lying several times in his testimony .
the district attorney says this does not hurt their case .
david soares/albany county district attorney : " the issues that are in play in the courtroom right now will bear themselves out .
there 's a jury that was chosen to listen to the evidence that 's presented and they will evaluate the testimony of everyone who takes the stand and testifies . " .
the jury also heard the 911 call of the shooting , and heard from police officers who responded to the call , as well as one of the paramedics who treated kathina .
gangbangers who allegedly killed mom of 12 in crossfire begin trial .
zurana horton was killed when the accused thugs andrew lopez , 20 and jonathan carrasquillo , 24 , were spraying bullets from a rooftop in brownsville , brooklyn and one richocheted off a wall .
thursday , april 11 , 2013 , 12 : 12 am .
two accused gangbangers went on trial wednesday for tragically killing a mother of 12 as they were spraying bullets from a brooklyn rooftop .
"zurana horton became a victim of the senseless gang violence that plagues brooklyn , " prosecutor seth goldman said at the start of the murder trial of half - brothers andrew lopez , 20 , and jonathan carrasquillo , 24 .
the 34 - year - old mother was struck in the chest from a bullet that ricocheted off a fence in her brownsville neighborhood in oct . 2011 , authorities said .
lopez was allegedly targeting members of the young goon gang , who had a seven - year beef with the 8 block crew he belonged to .
last may , a stray bullet killed 10-year-old kathina thomas as she played on the front steps of her home on albany 's first street .
her death sparked outrage , and even prompted the community to come together to get guns off albany streets .
now the case is back in the spotlight as the 16-year-old accused of firing the fatal shot , jermayne timmons , goes to trial .
more than 100 potential jurors walked into the albany county courthouse monday .
inside , men and women from all walks of life were slowly eliminated , answering questions such as " had you heard , seen or read anything about the death of thomas ? " .
such a query would be difficult thing to say " no " to , given all the media attention that the 10-year-old 's death and timmons ' subsequent arrest brought .
by 5:00pm monday , selection was winding down for the day as five were already picked for the jury .
timmons remained at the courthouse along with defense attorney peter lynch and albany county district attorney dave rossi .
" the evidence in this case is gon na ' show factually that jermayne is not the person who caused [ thomas ' ] death , " lynch told local media monday .
however , lynch has a tough job ahead of him in proving that his client did not pull the trigger and , in the end , kill thomas .
this , when police have released an alleged confession from timmons , and a letter of apology that he is said to have written to the girl 's mother that reads , " i am so sorry that the gun i shot is the gun that could have takeing ( sic . ) your baby girl away from you , " .
king provided an explanation , saying , " the so-called apology note was posed more in the question of if [ timmons ] , in some way , could have been responsible , he would have been apologetic for it , " .
none of thomas ' family members were present in the courthouse monday , only timmons ' friends and relatives .
also absent were those who are expected to be called on as witnesses .
in an unprecedented move , albany county assistant district attorney dave rossi asked the media to keep the identities of certain witnesses quiet .
" if we start seeing names in the paper or on the news on day one , i think it 's gon na ' make it more difficult for us to have witnesses in the seat on day two , three and four , " he said .
one of the witnesses that can be talked about is jermayne timmons ' own mother , who is expected to take the stand .
jury selection will likely go on until sometime tuesday .
it was more than seven months ago when that errant bullet killed kathina thomas .
the 10-year-old was shot on the night of may 29th while she was playing outside her first street home .
less than two weeks later , jermayne timmons was arrested and charged with the shooting .
it was discovered shortly after the arrest that timmons had written an apology letter to the mother of kathina thomas , saying the bullet was not meant to hit the girl .
in response to the fallout over thomas ' death , and further gun violence in albany , district attorney david soares announced a gun buyback program in mid-june , offering up gift cards to anyone who brought in a gun .
gang member guilty in slay of brooklyn mom of 12 .
andrew lopez , 20 was found guilty in murder of zurana horton .
horton was struck by a stray bullet as lopez targeted rival gang members .
he faces up to 75 years to life in prison .
wednesday , april 24 , 2013 , 10 : 34 am .
a gang member was convicted tuesday for claiming the life of a mother of 12 when he sprayed 13 bullets from a brooklyn rooftop in broad daylight .
andrew lopez , 20 , was found guilty of slaying zurana horton , 34 , and wounding unique armstead , 32 , and cheanne mcknight , 11 , in october 2011 as he targeted rival gang members .
he faces up to 75 years to life in prison when he's sentenced may 7 .
the gruesome death on a busy brownsville street was captured in a chilling surveillance tape played at trial .
it took the panel just over two hours to convict lopez , who confessed after the shooting .
guilty verdict for murderer of brooklyn mother of 12 .
a brooklyn jury has returned a guilty verdict for andrew lopez for the murder of zurana horton and the injury of two others .
convicted of second - degree murder and assault in the first degree , lopez , 20 , faces a potential sentence of life in prison when he is sentenced by justice vincent del giudice .
in october 2011 , lopez and his co - defendant and half - brother jonathan carrasquillo , 24 , were arrested in connection with a shooting in brownsville's howard housing projects .
surveillance footage , provided as evidence to the jurors , captures the horrific event as it unfolded .
the video shows horton , a mother of 12 , on the street near a school immediately prior to the shooting .
it shows her attempting to shield herself from the spray of bullets , and ultimately her fatally wounded body on the sidewalk .
"zurana horton became a victim of the senseless gang violence that plagues brooklyn , " prosecutor seth goldman said during the murder trial of lopez and carrasquillo .
it was said throughout the investigation and trial that lopez and carrasquillo were targeting members of a rival gang when horton and the two other victims killed and injured in the crossfire .
carrasquillo allegedly ordered lopez to shoot .
the jury is still deliberating on carrasquillo's verdict .
lopez's sentence date is may 7 .
april 24 , 2013 - 4 : 45pm .
last moments of brooklyn mother of 12 killed in crossfire caught on tape .
zurana horton , 34 , was killed on oct . 21 , 2011 while walking near an intersection in brownsville after 2 p . m .
andrew lopez , 20 , is the accused gunman who sprayed gunfire from a rooftop .
thursday , april 11 , 2013 , 9 : 53 pm .
a shocking video released for the first time thursday captures the moment a brooklyn mother of 12 was killed in a gang shootout as she picked her daughter up from school .
the dramatic footage was shown at the trial of two local toughs charged with killing zurana horton , 34 , on oct . 21 , 2011 .
at 2 : 18 p . m . , horton and two other moms are seen approaching a brownsville intersection as a yellow school bus rolls up .
a commotion breaks out as the three mothers and two children press up against a storefront for safety .
horton pushes a child out of the way , grips her chest , then collapses to the ground next to a pool of her own blood .
"i saw her fall back . . .
i saw blood coming from her , " testified unique armstead , the mother in the video wearing a white jacket , seen enveloping herself around her son as they dive to the ground just feet from where horton was killed .
armstead was shot in the left arm .
andrew lopez , 20 , is accused of firing indiscriminately at rival gang members from a nearby rooftop .
his half - brother , jonathan carrasquillo , 24 , who allegedly instructed lopez to take care of their enemies , is also on trial for murder .
armstead , 32 , testified that after she overheard someone say "he has a gun , " she took refuge inside a corner bodega with her son , who was celebrating his 11th birthday that day .
they stepped out less than a minute later when it looked like the threat was over , she said , but then shots started to ring out .
"i thought it was a brick but it was a bullet , " armstead testified .
"i told my son , 'i think i'm shot . ' " .
an 11 - year - old girl , cheanne mcknight , was grazed in the cheek .
lopez is accused of spraying 13 shots on a friday afternoon , just as schools were being let out .
horton's senseless death shook the city and highlighted the scourge of gun violence that plagues its hardscrabble neighborhoods .
the two juries hearing the case - one for each defendant - showed little emotion as the disturbing tape was played in court .
horton's mother , denise peace , said she is now caring for five of her daughter's orphaned kids while their father is looking after seven others .
of the alleged gunman , she said , "he's a menace to society . " .
the trial will resume monday with testimony from a man who purportedly told prosecutors he has been threatened with death by lopez's brother .
after the witness , who covered his face with a hoodie , was heard in an empty courtroom , the judge ruled he can testify in open court .
but justice vincent delgiudice made clear the witness is reluctant to take the stand .
"the man is petrified , " he said .
"the man is an emotional wreck . " .
prosecutors release new video in shooting trial of brownsville mother of 12 , zurana horton .
published : april 16 , 2013 9 : 09 am .
prosecutors have released new video in the trial of two men accused of killing a brownsville mother of 12 in oct . 2011 .
the video shows zurana horton falling to the ground surrounded by kids in the moments after gunfire erupted outside her children's school .
witnesses say horton died trying to shield several students .
authorities have charged andrew lopez and jonathan carrasquillo with her murder .
jury finds andrew lopez guilty in murder of zurana horton .
published : april 23 , 2013 9 : 39 am .
a jury has handed down a guilty verdict for one of the two men accused of murdering a brownsville mother of 12 .
andrew lopez was found guilty of second - degree murder and two counts of first - degree assault in the death of zurana horton .
jury deliberations are still underway for the second suspect , jonathan carrasquillo .
horton was shot and killed in october 2011 when gunfire erupted outside . . .
i confirmed yesterday that obama has offered the job and that gupta had all but officially accepted .
got it up on the web site at 2:36 p.m. , mere moments after filing the story .
cyberspeed comes in handy sometimes .
cnn , where i host a weekly program , did n't report it until 3:59 , but the blogs went crazy -- lead story on huffpost , top of drudge 's page , then the nyt and others .
gupta would n't comment to me -- while not denying the story -- but confirmed on his twitter feed that he " has been approached by the obama administration about the u.s. surgeon general 's post . " .
everyone 's digital these days .
it 's interesting that obama was so intent on recruiting him that he met with the " house call " host for 2 1/2 hours on nov. 25 .
he seems to want an administration of stars in the hillary mode .
gupta does n't have a panetta problem -- he operates inside people 's heads , after all -- and has always been drawn to health policy , since a stint in the clinton white house .
obama nominates new surgeon general : macarthur "genius grant" fellow regina benjamin .
jul 13 , 2009 01 : 40 pm .
as the country's politicos have their sights set on the u . s . supreme court confirmation hearings for sonia sotomayor today , president barack obama nominated regina benjamin , 52 , as the country's new surgeon general , the "leading spokesperson on issues of public health , " obama said .
benjamin , a rural family doctor in alabama , was a 2008 macarthur foundation fellow , and in 1995 she was elected to the american medical association's board of trustees , making her both the first black woman on the board and the first ama trustee to be elected before the age of 40 .
in 1990 she founded the bayou la batre rural health clinic , which cares for a largely uninsured working - class community that was hit by both hurricanes katrina and george .
in addition to providing for her ill patients - whether or not they can foot the bill - "she's been a relentless promoter of prevention and wellness programs , " obama said about benjamin , who has had many relatives have die of preventable diseases .
in her acceptance speech , benjamin thanked two of her mentors : former surgeon general david satcher and former secretary of health and human services , louis sullivan .
if confirmed by the senate , she will replace rear admiral steven k . galson , who has been acting surgeon general since october 2007 .
the surgeon general "communicates the best science , evidence , and data to the american people for them to make healthy choices , " according to the office of the surgeon general's web site .
cnn correspondent sanjay gupta had been the front - runner for the spot earlier this year until he pulled himself out of consideration .
dr. sanjay gupta , a neurosurgeon and chief medical correspondent for cnn , has been offered the post of surgeon general by president-elect barack obama , according to sources .
gupta , 39 , has reportedly accepted the job , according to the washington post , and is already working out the details of moving his family from atlanta to washington .
regina benjamin u . s . surgeon general nominee .
july 13 , 2009 .
president barack obama held a press conference , july 13 , 2009 to announce his nominee for u . s . surgeon general , regina benjamin .
here is the transcript of the announcement .
president barack obama : before i introduce america's next surgeon general , i'd like to say a few words about our ongoing efforts to reform the health care system that she will help oversee .
we are now closer to the goal of health care reform than we have ever been .
over the last several weeks , key committees in the house and the senate have made important and unprecedented progress on a plan that will lower costs , provide better care for patients and curb the worst practices of the insurance companies .
it's a plan that will not add to our deficit over the next decade .
let me repeat that : it is a plan that will not add to our deficit over the next decade and eventually will help lower our deficit by slowing the skyrocketing costs of medicare and medicaid .
now , even though we are close , i've got no illusions that it's going to be easy to get over the finish line .
there are going to be more debates and more disagreements before all is said and done .
but health care reform must be done .
i know there are those who believe we should wait to solve this problem or take a more incremental approach or simply do nothing .
but this is the kind of criticism we heard when the country tried to pass medicare , a program that is now providing quality care to generations of american seniors .
it's the kind of criticism we heard when we tried to pass the children's health insurance program , which has provided quality care and coverage to millions of kids .
it's the same washington thinking that has ignored big challenges and put off tough decisions for decades .
and it is precisely that kind of small thinking that has led us into the current predicament .
so , make no mistake : the status quo on health care is no longer an option for the united states of america .
if we step back from this challenge right now , we will leave our children a legacy of debt , a future of crushing costs that bankrupt our families , our businesses and , because we will have done nothing to bring down the costs of medicare and medicaid , will crush our government .
premiums will continue to skyrocket , placing what amounts to another tax on american families struggling to pay bills .
the insurance companies and special interests that have killed reform in the past will only continue to benefit even more , and they'll continue to deny coverage to americans with pre - existing medical conditions .
people will continue to lose health insurance just because they lose their job or they change jobs .
this is a future that we cannot afford .
this country can't afford to have health care premiums rise three times faster than people's wages as they did over the last decade .
we can't afford 14 , 000 americans losing their health care every single day .
we can't afford a future where our government will eventually spend more on medicare and medicaid than what we spend on everything else .
during the campaign i promised health care reform that would control costs , expand coverage and ensure choice , and i promised that americans making $250 , 000 a year or less would not pay more in taxes .
these are promises that we're keeping as reform moves forward .
this is no longer a problem we can wait to fix .
this is about who we are as a country .
health care reform is about every family's health , but it's also about the health of the economy .
so , i just want to put everybody on notice , because there was a lot of chatter during the week that i was gone : we are going to get this done .
inaction is not an option .
and for those naysayers and cynics who think that this is not going to happen , don't bet against us .
we are going to make this thing happen because the american people desperately need it .
and even those who are satisfied with their health care right now , they understand that if premiums keep on doubling and if employers keep on shedding health insurance because it's unsustainable , and if you look at the trajectory of where medicare and medicaid are going , then inaction will create the biggest crisis of all .
and so i understand people are a little nervous and a little scared about making change .
you know , the muscles in this town to bring about big changes are a little atrophied , but we're whipping folks back into shape .
we are going to get this done .
and if there's anyone who understands the urgency of meeting this challenge in a personal and powerful way , it is the woman who will become our nation's next surgeon general , dr . regina benjamin .
the list of qualifications that make dr . benjamin an outstanding candidate to be america's leading spokesperson on issues of public health are long indeed .
she was in the second class at morehouse school of medicine and went on to earn an m . d . from the university of alabama at birmingham and an mba from tulane .
she served as associate dean for rural health at the university of south alabama college of medicine , and in 1995 , she became the first physician under 40 and the first african - american woman to be named to the american medical association's board of trustees .
in 2002 , she became president of alabama's state medical association , and she has received numerous awards and recognitions , including the macarthur genius award .
it's very impressive .
but of all these achievements and experience , none has been more pertinent to today's challenges or closer to regina's heart than the rural health clinic that she has built and rebuilt in bayou la batre .
did i say that right ?
barack obama has asked the cnn medical correspondent dr sanjay gupta to join his fledgling administration as the us surgeon general , according to reports .
according to washingtonpost.com , the 39-year-old doctor is " the obama team 's first choice " to become america 's most senior public health official .
although gupta has not commented on the matter , the post claims that he wants the job and is undergoing final vetting .
cnn has confirmed gupta has been approached by the president-elect 's transition team .
former ama trustee dr . benjamin nominated to be surgeon general .
posted july 20 , 2009 .
president obama's choices to be the nation's top physician and top scientist are both hands - on practitioners with extensive leadership experience .
on july 13 , obama announced that he was nominating regina m . benjamin , md , a family physician from southern alabama , to be surgeon general .
dr . benjamin , 52 , became the first woman and first african - american president of the medical assn . of the state of alabama in 2002 .
she also completed a term in june as chair of the ama council on ethical and judicial affairs and served on the ama board of trustees from 1995 to 1998 , becoming the first physician under 40 to serve on the board in a non - resident role .
on july 8 , obama nominated francis s . collins , md , phd , as director of the national institutes of health .
dr . collins , 59 , led the human genome project - - an effort to sequence and map human genes , that concluded in 2003 .
he left his position as director of the nih's national human genome research institute in 2008 after 15 years but maintains a lab at the nih's bethesda , md . , campus .
both nominees must first be confirmed by the senate .
ama president j . james rohack , md , said dr . benjamin has an impressive list of accomplishments , including receiving a macarthur fellowship in 2008 , commonly known as the "genius grant . " .
but awards are not her main focus , he said .
"dr . benjamin's most important qualification for surgeon general is her deep commitment to her patients . " .
dr . benjamin said in the white house rose garden announcement that the deaths of close relatives from preventable diseases drove her to focus on public health .
"my father died with diabetes and hypertension .
my older brother , and only sibling , died at age 44 of hiv - related illness .
my mother died of lung cancer , because as a young girl , she wanted to smoke just like her twin brother could . " .
dr . collins' colleagues said he is a natural choice to head the primary federal agency for funding and conducting medical research because of his thoughtfulness , willingness to listen and experience as a spokesman for the genome mapping effort .
"he's a forceful personality , " said tom murray , phd , head of the hastings center , an independent bioethics research institute .
"he wants to hear from people who don't agree with him . " .
patients before profits .
if confirmed , dr . benjamin would be the nation's lead public health educator .
fellow physicians see the role as a good fit .
besides experience with family illnesses , dr . benjamin said she also was influenced by her medical school training under david satcher , md , phd , who later became surgeon general , and others who focused on public health issues in underserved areas .
jorge alsip , md , the alabama medical society's president , said dr . benjamin has seen how much patients in poor and rural areas appreciate her help .
"that can't help but affect you and make you want to do something for these people , " said dr . alsip , an emergency physician who has known dr . benjamin for more than 15 years .
dr . alsip also said dr . benjamin is tenacious .
"if regina's in a fight , don't ever bet against her . " .
she rebuilt her clinic in bayou la batre , ala . , twice after hurricanes destroyed it and is rebuilding it a third time after a fire .
obama said his surgeon general pick has personally witnessed how the u . s . health system is broken .
"she's seen an increasing number of patients who've had health insurance their entire lives suddenly lose it because they lost their jobs or because it's simply become too expensive . " .
dr . benjamin lamented the difficulty some doctors face in caring for patients , regardless of ability to pay .
"it shouldn't be this expensive for americans to get health care in this country , " she said .
obama said dr . benjamin has forgone a salary when her clinic faced financial hardship .
jeff terry , md , chair of the ama's alabama delegation and a urologist , said dr . benjamin has proven herself through work in organized medicine and elsewhere .
the two co - founded the young physicians section of the state medical society nearly two decades ago .
since then , she has held leadership positions in physician organizations and other groups .
dr . benjamin is also probably more politically liberal than many physicians on alabama's gulf coast , dr . terry said .
"maybe president obama saw a little of that in her . " .
both scientific and religious .
obama lauded dr . collins' experience in the july 8 announcement .
"dr . collins is one of the top scientists in the world , and his groundbreaking work has changed the very ways we consider our health and examine disease . " .
dr . collins' laboratory discovered several important genes , including those responsible for cystic fibrosis and huntington's disease .
acquaintances and colleagues predicted that dr . collins would do a good job representing nih in front of lawmakers and others .
he is a very approachable person who doesn't rely on jargon to communicate , said sean b . tipton , spokesman for the american society of reproductive medicine .
"he has an ability to interact with the public and with policymakers and the press that i think will serve him very well as an nih director . " .
the hastings center's murray said that if dr . collins ever made a mistake , it may be that he was a bit overly enthusiastic when describing the potential for breakthroughs when he was leading the human genome project .
still , "i can't fault the scientist who really believes in their work for being enthusiastic as they talk to congress , " murray said .
dr . collins has garnered attention by professing that his belief in god can coexist with his pursuit of science .
he's written books on the topic , including the 2007 best - seller the language of god : a scientist presents evidence for belief .
he is also founder and president of the biologos foundation , whose purpose is to find compatibility between the scientific and religious searches for truth .
in an interview with the spiritual web site beliefnet in 2007 , dr . collins said christians who reject scientific evolutionary theory are also rejecting humans' ability to understand , a god - given skill .
but there are limits to the questions science can answer , such as why we are here or what happens after death , he said .
william hurlbut , md , a consulting professor of neuroscience at stanford university and a former member of president george w . bush's council on bioethics , said the idea that science and religion can't coexist is ridiculous .
"a person with francis' background is a very wise choice" for nih chief , he said .
barack obama to name dr. sanjay gupta surgeon general : onion headline or actual news ?
according to the washington post 's howard kurtz , it 's fact , and as long as the cnn doc can accustom himself to making white house money rather than cable-news money , he 's expected to accept .
president-elect barack obama 's reported choice for surgeon general , cnn medical correspondent sanjay gupta , could bring a dose of star power to a job that has n't had that much clout in decades .
dr. sanjay gupta , a neurosurgeon and cnn 's chief medical reporter , is the leading contender to become the next surgeon general , a pick that will give the moribund office a higher profile but one that has received a mixed reaction among public health advocates .
president-elect barack obama has asked neurosurgeon and cnn medical correspondent dr. sanjay gupta to be u.s. surgeon general , a senior democrat said on tuesday .
gupta has been " the obama team 's first choice " for the job , which would make the tv personality america 's top doctor , said the democrat who is familiar with efforts by obama to staff his pending administration .
the washington post 's online service , washingtonpost.com , first reported that gupta had been offered the job , traditionally the u.s. top spokesman on matters of public health .
cnn medical reporter and grady hospital neurosurgeon dr. sanjay gupta has been approached by the obama administration to fill the post of u.s. surgeon general , cnn officials confirmed tuesday .
the white house .
office of the press secretary .
for immediate release july 13 , 2009 .
president obama announces nominee for surgeon general .
today , president barack obama announced his intent to nominate regina m . benjamin as surgeon general , department of health and human services .
president obama said , "health care reform is about every family's health and the health of our economy .
and if there's anyone who understands the urgency of meeting this challenge in a personal and powerful way , it's the woman who will become our nation's next surgeon general , doctor regina benjamin .
i look forward working with her in the months and years ahead . " .
president obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual today .
regina m . benjamin , nominee for surgeon general , department of health and human services .
regina m . benjamin , md , mba , is founder and ceo of the bayou la batre rural health clinic in bayou la batre , alabama .
she is the immediate past - chair of the federation of state medical boards of the united states , and previously served as associate dean for rural health at the university of south alabama college of medicine .
in 2002 , she became president of the medical association of the state of alabama , making her the first african american woman to be president of a state medical society in the united states .
dr . benjamin holds a bs in chemistry from xavier university , new orleans .
she was in the 2nd class at morehouse school of medicine and received her md degree from the university of alabama , birmingham , as well as an mba from tulane university .
she completed her residency in family medicine at the medical center of central georgia .
dr . benjamin received the nelson mandela award for health and human rights in 1998 , and was elected to the american medical association board of trustees in 1995 , making her the first physician under age 40 and the first african - american woman to be elected .
dr . benjamin was previously named by time magazine as one of the "nation's 50 future leaders age 40 and under . " .
she was also featured in a new york times article , "angel in a white coat" , as "person of the week" on abc's world news tonight with peter jennings , and as "woman of the year" by cbs this morning .
she received the 2000 national caring award which was inspired by mother teresa , as well as the papal honor pro ecclesia et pontifice from pope benedict xvi .
she is also a recent recipient of the macarthur genius award .
in a rich and symbolic recognition to india 's sterling contribution to the us health care system , the us president-elect has asked dr sanjay gupta , cnn 's well-known medical correspondent and a neuro-surgeon of repute to be the country 's surgeon general .
dr . regina benjamin : nominee for surgeon general .
july 13 , 2009 12 : 49 pm edt .
the president announced his nominee for the u . s . surgeon general , dr . regina benjamin , today at the white house .
dr . benjamin has an extensive and distinguished career in medicine .
she is the founder and ceo of the bayou la batre rural health clinic in alabama , which aims to provide primary care to people of any age regardless of their financial situation .
she previously served as chair of the federation of state medical boards of the united states , and as the associate dean for rural health at the university of south alabama college of medicine .
additionally , she was chosen as president of the medical association of alabama in 2002 , becoming the first african - american woman to be president of a state medical society .
she was also the first african - american woman and physician under 40 to be elected to the american medical association board of trustees .
she received the nelson mandela award for health and human rights in 1998 , among other honors .
the president emphasized this experience in his remarks , chronicling her dedication to providing health care for her rural community in the face of adversity .
and that's why , even though she could have left the state to make more money as a specialist or as a doctor in a wealthier community , regina benjamin returned to alabama and opened a small clinic in bayou la batre .
when people couldn't pay , she didn't charge them .
when the clinic wasn't making money , she didn't take a salary for herself .
when hurricane george destroyed the clinic in 1998 , she made house calls to all her patients while it was rebuilt .
when hurricane katrina destroyed it again and left most of her town homeless , she mortgaged her house and maxed out her credit cards to rebuild that clinic for a second time .
she tended to those who had been wounded in the storm , and when folks needed medicine , she asked the pharmacist to send the bill her way .
and when regina's clinic was about to open for the third time , and a fire burned it to the ground before it could serve the first patient , well , you can guess what dr . benjamin did .
with help from her community , she is rebuilding it again .
one disabled patient brought her an envelope with $20 inside .
another elderly man said simply , "maybe i can help .
i got a hammer . " .
for nearly two decades , dr . regina benjamin has seen in a very personal way what is broken about our health care system .
she's seen an increasing number of patients who've had health insurance their entire lives suddenly lose it because they lost their jobs or because it's simply become too expensive .
she's been a relentless promoter of prevention and wellness programs , having treated too many costly and - - diseases and complications that didn't have to happen .
and she's witnessed the shortage of primary care physicians in the rural and underserved areas where she works .
but for all that she's seen and all the tremendous obstacles that she has overcome , regina benjamin also represents what's best about health care in america - - doctors and nurses who give and care and sacrifice for the sake of their patients ; those americans who would do anything to heal a fellow citizen .
as the president explained , through this personal experience working with the poor and uninsured , dr . benjamin understands firsthand the urgent need for health care reform .
as surgeon general , she will be the people's health advocate , and will play a key role in health care reform .
in her remarks , dr . benjamin explained how she sees her role .
my hope , if confirmed as surgeon general , is to be america's doctor , america's family physician .
as we work toward a solution to this health care crisis , i promise to communicate directly with the american people to help guide them through whatever changes may come with health care reform .
news that barack obama may name dr. sanjay gupta of emory university and cnn as his surgeon general has caused a spasm of celebrity reporting .
regina benjamin u . s . surgeon general nomination : stories and resources .
on july 13 , 2009 at 10 : 50 am , updated july 29 , 2009 at 12 : 16 pm .
president barack obama announces his nomination of dr . regina benjamin , a physician who operates a clinic in bayou la batre , ala . , as the u . s . surgeon general during an announcement in the white house rose garden monday , july 13 , 2009 .
reports that president-elect barack obama had approached cnn 's medical correspondent , dr. sanjay gupta , to be the next surgeon general inspired a parlor game among people who have too much free time ( a k a media types ) .
the doctor is ( finally ) in : obama to nominate regina benjamin as surgeon general .
jul 13 , 2009 11 : 23am .
president obama will name dr . regina benjamin as u . s . surgeon general in a rose garden announcement late this morning .
benjamin , an alabama family physician , runs a rural health clinic in bayou la batre .
she was the first african - american woman to head a state medical society and received a macarthur foundation "genius grant" last year .
she became known nationally for her determination to rebuild her clinic , destroyed in hurricane katrina in 2005 .
in her profile on the national institutes of health web site , benjamin writes about her calling to become a doctor while in medical school at the university of alabama at birmingham .
"i believe it was divine intervention - it was in medical school when i realized there was nothing else i'd rather do with my life than to be a doctor .
i had never seen a black doctor before i went to college , so i did not have an idea that i wanted to be one .
i never thought i that i couldn't , but i never really thought about it at all . " .
according to a 1997 article in ebony , benjamin said she applied to yale university school of law before she attended college .
"they sent me a reply politely telling me that i needed my undergraduate degree first . " .
to pay for college , she turned to the national health service corps , which gave her a tuition reimbursement in exchange for committing to work in areas where there was a shortage of doctors .
that agreement took her to bayou la batre where she was the only doctor for 2 , 500 people , most of whom lived below the poverty line and spoke no english .
benjamin was named the person of the week on abc news' world news tonight in 1995 and conveyed the challenges of servicing poor patients .
"the people are real , genuine , hardworking .
they're proud people .
they make a living the best they can on shrimp boats .
they , unfortunately , are too poor to pay their medical bills at times , " she told abc news' peter jennings .
"sometimes it's very frustrating .
sometimes i can do everything that the textbooks taught me and school taught me and then patients can't buy their medicine .
and it's all for nothing . " .
in january , it was reported that president obama had asked cnn's dr . sanjay gupta to be surgeon general , and that gupta had mulled the offer for a while , but eventually turned it down .
benjamin will appear in the rose garden today as the president makes the nomination formal .
like you , i did a scooby-doo ( or was it astro ? ) " whuuuuhhh ? ? " double-take when i spotted sanjay gupta 's smiling mug on a cable news channel not named cnn yesterday , being mentioned as a candidate -- the leading one , we must assume -- for u.s. surgeon general .
ama celebrates nomination of regina benjamin , md , surgeon general .
for immediate release .
july 13 , 2009 .
the american medical association is delighted that dr . regina benjamin , md , has been nominated to serve as our nation's next u . s . surgeon general .
her many impressive accomplishments , including receiving a 2008 macarthur fellowship , commonly known as the "genius grant" , leave no doubt as to her qualifications .
"dr . benjamin's most important qualification for surgeon general is her deep commitment to her patients .
we are particularly gratified to see her recognized for her work caring for patients in rural alabama , and for her commitment to rebuilding her rural health clinic in the wake of hurricane katrina .
she is a true professional who puts her patients first .
the ama is immensely proud of dr . benjamin's accomplishments , and we are extremely fortunate that she has just served a term as chair of the ama's council on ethical and judicial affairs .
she served as a member of the ama's board of trustees with the dual distinctions of being the ama's first young physician trustee , as well as the first african - american woman board member .
we look forward to seeing dr . benjamin serve as an advocate for all the nation's patients , as our country works toward health reform that provides high quality , affordable health coverage for all . " .
cnn 's management confirmed yesterday that dr gupta had been approached by the obama team .
cnn management said : " since first learning that dr gupta was under consideration for the surgeon-general position , cnn has made sure his on-air reporting has been on health and wellness matters and not on healthcare policy or any matters involving the new administration . " .
president nominates regina benjamin , md to serve as surgeon general .
rural family physician featured in nlm's "changing the face of medicine" exhibition .
president obama has nominated alabama physician dr . regina benjamin to be us surgeon general .
dr . benjamin is one of the outstanding american women physicians profiled in nlm's 2003 - 2005 exhibition , "changing the face of medicine . " .
her biography appears at : http : / / www . nlm . nih . gov / changingthefaceofmedicine / physicians / biography _ 31 . html .
with support from the american library association , "changing the face of medicine" is traveling the nation through november 2010 .
you can view the itinerary at : http : / / www . nlm . nih . gov / hmd / about / exhibition / travelingexhibitions / ctfom . html .
dr . benjamin , who has held leadership positions statewide and nationally , has long provided medical care on the gulf coast .
in 1990 , she founded bayou la batre rural health clinic in the fishing village of bayou la batre , alabama .
her clinic was battered by hurricane georges in 1998 and hurricane katrina in 2005 , but benjamin rebuilt it each time and continued to offer medical care to the village's 2 , 500 residents .
many of her family practice patients are uninsured , according to the macarthur foundation , which last year awarded her one of its prestigious $500 , 000 "genius" grants .
her patient population includes immigrants from vietnam , cambodia and laos , who comprise a third of bayou la batre's population .
benjamin received a bachelor's degree in 1979 from xavier university of louisiana , attended morehouse school of medicine from 1980 to 1982 and received a doctor of medicine degree from the university of alabama at birmingham in 1984 .
she completed her residency in family practice at the medical center of central georgia in 1987 and has served as ceo of the bayou la batre rural health clinic since its founding in 1990 .
she earned a master's degree in business administration in 1991 from tulane university .
dr . benjamin also served as the associate dean for rural health at the university of south alabama's college of medicine and as president of the state of alabama medical association from 2002 to 2003 .
she is the first woman , first african american woman and first person under age 40 to sit on the board of trustees of the american medical association , serving from 1995 through 1998 .
the u . s . surgeon general serves as america's chief health educator by providing americans the best scientific information available on how to improve their health and reduce the risk of illness and injury .
in carrying out all responsibilities , the surgeon general reports to the assistant secretary for health , who is the principal advisor to the secretary of health and human services on public health and scientific issues .
the us surgeon general also serves on the nlm board of regents as an ex officio member .
u.s. president-elect barack obama has asked neurosurgeon sanjay gupta , cnn 's chief medical correspondent , to serve as the country 's surgeon general , cnn reported tuesday .
robert wood johnson foundation trustee , regina benjamin , m . d . , m . b . a . , nominated for surgeon general of the united states .
nominee praised for her expertise , credentials , judgment and passionate commitment to health care equity and social justice .
july 13 , 2009 .
the robert wood johnson foundation congratulates former trustee , regina benjamin , m . d . , m . b . a . , on being nominated for surgeon general of the united states .
benjamin brings to the position tremendous expertise , leading academic credentials , impeccable judgment , and a passionate commitment to health care equity and social justice .
while the foundation is sorry to be losing benjamin as a trustee , we are grateful that she is continuing to dedicate her knowledge and commitment to helping americans lead healthier lives and get the care they need .
cnn reporter sanjay gupta , a neurosurgeon who is among the nation 's best-known physicians , is under serious consideration to be the next surgeon general , democratic and network officials said tuesday .
wednesday , july 29 , 2009 .
surgeon general nominee dr . regina benjamin .
i was immediately impressed with dr . regina benjamin's background when president obama nominated her for u . s . surgeon general .
she's led an impressive career , one that includes deciding to practice in a low - income community in the gulf coast of alabama .
the bayou la batre rural health clinic has been a staple for residents since 1987 and often doesn't charge patients who can't afford to pay .
the clinic also focuses heavily on preventative illness since this hits close to home for dr . benjamin .
she lost her father to diabetics and high - blood pressure , her mother to lung cancer and her brother from a hiv - related illness .
personally and professionally , dr . benjamin has longed fought for the well - being of others .
after researching her background , i had a gut feeling she was a member of delta sigma theta sorority , inc . , a non - profit community service based organization .
and it was confirmed several days later when the sorority's national president announced dr . benjamin became a member while completing her undergraduate degree at xavier university in new orleans , la .
while i wasn't the only one impressed with dr . benjamin's background , there were also some who questioned her ability to perform the duties of surgeon general .
an article with the subtitle : "do you have to be thin to be fit for the role of nation's top doc ? " , was published shortly after dr . benjamin's nomination .
dr . arthur caplan penned the article and defended dr . benjamin due to her tireless effort of serving those less fortunate .
i applaud him for taking a stand on dr . benjamin's behalf .
i don't condone a unhealthy lifestyle , but i'm sure dr . benjamin is probably like many of us .
with hectic work schedules and families , it can be difficult to find time to lead a healthy lifestyle .
i struggle with juggling my to - do - list daily and sometimes exercise and healthy eating doesn't make the cut .
it's no secret that women are confronted with these issues more than men .
i'm calling on women to speak up for dr . benjamin .
you don't have to agree with the policies of president obama or even with the nomination of dr . benjamin , but we can't continue to allow society to dictate our outer appearance .
women , start making your moves today !
so in choosing gupta , the tv star and neurosurgeon , president-elect barack obama seems to be reaching back to the era when c. everett koop was the straight-talking surgeon general advocating for the public 's health .
as the wsj notes , gupta as a journalist is already a public figure who informs the nation about health .
since cnn learned of gupta 's candidacy , the cable network has made sure his on-air reporting has n't touched health-care policy or other subjects involving the new administration , the wsj reports .
obama nominates rural catholic doctor as surgeon general .
washington d . c . , jul 13 , 2009 / 02 : 00 pm ( cna ) .
president barack obama has announced that he is nominating a rural alabama catholic doctor to be the u . s . surgeon general .
reacting to the news , the rector of mobile's catholic cathedral , where she serves as lector , is encouraging her to defend the unborn in her new position .
in a monday statement president obama said he intended to nominate dr . regina benjamin as surgeon general , the united states government's "chief health educator . " .
the president's announcement focused on health care reform as an urgent challenge .
dr . benjamin , the first black woman to be admitted to the american medical association , founded the bayou la batre rural health clinic in alabama in 1990 .
there , she served the poor alabama community on the gulf coast after 1998's hurricane georges and 2005's hurricane katrina .
she had to rebuild the clinic after it burned down , receiving a $500 , 000 macarthur foundation "genius grant" in 2008 for the effort .
dr . benjamin is known as being a national leader in improving health disparities , motivated by the need in her community .
immigrants from vietnam , cambodia and laos make up a third of the area's population of 2 , 500 .
she received the nelson mandela award for health and human rights in 1998 .
pope benedict xvi awarded her the pro ecclessia et pontifice medal in 2006 .
president obama's announcement also noted that dr . benjamin received the 2000 national caring award which was inspired by mother teresa .
the nominee graduated from xavier university in new orleans , a catholic school descended from the educational work of st . katharine drexel .
dr . benjamin received her medical degree from the university of alabama , birmingham .
dr . benjamin has also served on the board of trustees for the catholic health association , a position that she will resign from to take on her new job .
in a monday statement , cha president and chief executive officer sister carol keehan , dc , said that the organization "rejoices for our nation" in dr . benjamin's nomination .
"in dr . benjamin , we have a brilliant physician who understands health care , nationally and internationally ; but even more important , she knows the health care needs of the people of bayou la batre , alabama , who she meets on a daily basis . " .
sr . keehan said the nominee will "enrich the nation" with her competence and integrity and she praised dr . benjamin's daily experience working in "a very vulnerable committee . " .
cna spoke with msgr . michael l . farmer , vicar general of the archdiocese of mobile and rector at the cathedral of the immaculate conception in mobile .
msgr . farmer said dr . benjamin is a "delightful lady" who has served as lector at the cathedral and has been "readily available" to speak with various catholic organizations .
she has also worked with catholic charities in mobile and has spoken on the good the organization does .
he reported that she grew up at the historically african - american parish shrine of the holy cross in the gulf coast town of daphne , alabama .
the monsignor also confirmed that then - archbishop of mobile oscar lipscomb recommended dr . regina benjamin for the pro ecclesia et pontifice award .
the medal is bestowed to lay people and clergy who have given zealous and outstanding service to the church .
the honor was instituted by pope leo xiii in 1888 .
"he recommended her for her example in her catholic faith as well as in her medical profession , " msgr . farmer said , noting the "amazing amount of work" she has done for the common good and for health care in south mobile county .
expressing certainty that dr . benjamin had opportunities to go elsewhere , he said the doctor had made a "concrete decision" to remain in alabama and address her patients' needs .
"she's noted not only for clinic work , but for going on site to these people's homes .
and they're not necessarily the nicest places to go to . " .
he said it was "remarkable" and "bridge - building" that dr . benjamin , an african - american woman , has done her work in the bayou , which he described as a majority white community with "a lot of poor people in it . " .
given the appointments and policy decisions of the obama administration that favor the promotion of abortion , cna asked msgr . farmer if he knew what dr . benjamin's position is on abortion .
he explained that he did not "explicitly" know dr . benjamin's position on abortion and other life issues and had never discussed it with her .
"i would hope that her position would be in line with the church's position , " he told cna .
"as far as i know she has been in conformity with the catholic church . " .
"i would hope that that would continue , " he added , noting that it could be "difficult" to adhere to catholic moral teaching in a position with the obama administration .
in a monday morning telephone interview with cna , sr . keehan pointed out that dr . benjamin isn't "in a specialty that would do abortion" and that her work to provide health care to the poor and elderly demonstrates her "tremendous attention to the issue of life . " .
"and you've got her own archbishop who asked the holy father to give her the pro ecclesia medal .
"you don't get that for just being a token catholic , " she told cna .
in december 2008 a coalition of several dozen pro - abortion groups released a strategy document titled "advancing reproductive rights and health in a new administration" calling on obama to improve access to "abortion care . " .
the document named the surgeon general's office as a "position of interest . " .
chargers ' jackson arrested on suspicion of dui .
but after being arrested for suspicion dui earlier this week , he has bigger worries than his role in the chargers ' offense .
10news in san diego is reporting that jackson was arrested by the california highway patrol early tuesday morning after failing sobriety tests .
chp officer brad baehr said jackson was on probation for a previous dui arrest .
the chargers will not discipline jackson at this time , but it 's almost a guarantee that the nfl will step in and suspend him for several games at the start of this season .
however , unless you hear otherwise , jackson will be playing in this week 's divisional playoff at pittsburgh .
those in postseason leagues ( like our salcap game or our 3-for-all game ) should avoid jackson , but not just because of his recent troubles with the law .
he was held without a catch for the second time all year last week , and this week he faces pittsburgh 's top-ranked pass defense ( 156.9 yards allowed per game ) .
in san diego 's first meeting with the steelers this season , jackson was held to just two catches for 25 yards .
jackson 's recent run-in with the law effectively puts an end to his keeper value for next season .
san diego lineman arrested on suspicion of dui .
on feb . 04 , 2009 .
san diego chargers defensive tackle jamal williams was arrested on suspicion of drunken driving , the team " s second such arrest in less than a month .
williams was pulled over for speeding early sunday on a freeway outside downtown san diego , the california highway patrol said .
williams gave a blood sample for a blood - alcohol test , but the results were not yet known .
williams was booked into county jail and later released on bail .
the city attorney " s office said the case hadn " t been submitted as of tuesday .
" it " s disappointing to hear about the issue involving jamal williams , " general manager a . j . smith said in a statement released by the team .
" we " ll continue to monitor the situation and let the legal process run its course .
" the chargers have always been leaders and positive contributors to our community , " smith added .
" we take our stature in the community very seriously .
through the chargers and the nfl , our players receive one of the most comprehensive education and support programs in sports to help them deal with issues that affect all segments of society . " .
smith didn " t return a call seeking further comment .
chargers receiver vincent jackson was arrested for investigation of dui on jan . 6 , five days before san diego " s playoff loss at pittsburgh .
jackson is due in court feb . 17 .
he was on probation for a previous dui arrest , the chp said .
williams , an 11 - year veteran , shared the team " s mvp award with quarterback philip rivers this season .
san diego chargers defensive tackle faces dui charges .
jamal williams , the defensive tackle for the san diego chargers was arrested on suspicion of drunk driving early morning on sunday , february 1 , 2009 .
he is the second chargers " player within the last month to be arrested for dui .
williams was initially pulled over for speeding on a freeway outside downtown .
he submitted to a blood - alcohol test , but it will take a few weeks for the results to be completed .
williams was taken to a county jail where he later was released on bail .
williams is an 11 - year veteran and recipient of the chargers " most valuable player award this season .
according to the city attorney " s office , williams " case had not been submitted as of tuesday , february 3 , 2009 .
the team " s general manager , a . j . smith said that " we " ll continue to monitor the situation and let the legal process run its course . " .
he went on to say , " the chargers have always been leaders and positive contributors to our community .
we take our stature in the community very seriously .
through the chargers and the nfl , our players receive one of the most comprehensive education and support programs in sports to help them deal with issues that affect all segments of society . " .
vincent jackson , the chargers receiver , was also recently arrested on allegations of dui .
his dui arrest occurred five days before san diego " s playoff loss at pittsburgh .
jackson " s court date is set for february 17 , 2009 .
when he was arrested , he was on probation for a previous dui arrest , according to the california highway patrol .
chargers wr jackson will play vs. steelers .
an arrest for suspicion of driving under the influence will not affect the playing status of san diego chargers wide receiver vincent jackson for sunday 's divisional playoff game at pittsburgh .
jackson was arrested on the dui charge early tuesday morning by the california highway patrol .
however , the fourth-year wide receiver likely will not face disciplinary action until the 2009 season .
an nfl spokesman on wednesday said the league will await a determination by the court before considering disciplinary action against jackson .
along with the misdemeanor dui allegation , california highway patrol officer brad baehr said jackson was cited for driving on probation for a prior dui .
jackson issued a statement released through the team .
" i was stopped by an officer , " he said .
" i do n't think any charges will be filed as a result of the stop .
in the event they are , i look forward to clearing my name and proving my innocence . " .
baehr said he was not aware of the particulars of the previous dui charge and that results of jackson 's blood test are pending .
jackson had his finest season in 2008 with with 59 receptions for 1,098 yards and seven touchdowns for the afc west champions .
" we 're aware of the off-the-field issue involving vincent , " team general manager a.j. smith said in a statement .
" obviously we 're disappointed .
we take these issues very seriously .
moving forward , we will monitor the situation and have no further comment . " .
chargers' jamal williams arrested on dui suspicion .
posted 2 / 3 / 2009 11 : 11 pm .
chargers defensive tackle jamal williams was arrested on suspicion of drunken driving , the team's second such arrest in less than a month .
williams was pulled over for speeding early sunday on a freeway outside downtown , the california highway patrol said .
williams gave a blood sample for a blood - alcohol test , but the results won't be known for a few weeks .
williams was booked into county jail and later released on bail .
the city attorney's office said the case hadn't been submitted as of tuesday .
"it's disappointing to hear about the issue involving jamal williams , " general manager a . j . smith said in a statement released by the team .
"we'll continue to monitor the situation and let the legal process run its course .
"the chargers have always been leaders and positive contributors to our community , " smith added .
"we take our stature in the community very seriously .
through the chargers and the nfl , our players receive one of the most comprehensive education and support programs in sports to help them deal with issues that affect all segments of society . " .
smith didn't return a call seeking further comment .
chargers receiver vincent jackson was arrested for investigation of dui on jan . 6 , five days before san diego's playoff loss at pittsburgh .
jackson is due in court feb . 17 .
he was on probation for a previous dui arrest , the chp said .
williams , an 11 - year veteran , shared the team's most valuable player award with quarterback philip rivers this season .
the chargers reached the playoffs with an 8 - 8 record .
coincidentally , the chargers were the first nfl team to implement safe ride solutions , a program in which pro athletes who've had too much to drink can call a toll - free number and request a ride from an off - duty police officer .
for implementing the program , the chargers were awarded the nfl's winston - shell award for demonstrating commitment and dedication to developing unique and innovative ideas and solutions .
smith often speaks of signing "character" players , yet the chargers have had their share of off - field problems in recent seasons .
in 2006 , there were seven run - ins with the law by chargers players , including linebacker steve foley's shooting by an off - duty coronado police officer who suspected him of drunken driving , and two other players who were arrested for investigation of dui .
besides the arrests , linebacker shawne merriman was suspended four games for testing positive for steroids in 2006 , and linebacker stephen cooper was suspended by the nfl for the first four games of the 2008 season after testing positive for a banned stimulant .
jackson arrested on dui charge .
despite his arrest on suspicion of driving under the influence early yesterday , chargers receiver vincent jackson will play in sunday 's afc divisional playoff game at pittsburgh .
jackson , 25 , was driving east on state route 52 near interstate 805 just after 2:30 a.m. when he was pulled over for an observed traffic violation , california highway patrol officer brad baehr said .
jackson faces the misdemeanor dui allegation as well as charges that he was driving on probation for a prior dui in june 2006 , baehr said .
the results of a blood test are pending .
jackson proffered his innocence in a statement released yesterday afternoon .
" this morning i was stopped by an officer , " jackson said in the statement .
" i do n't think any charges will be filed as a result of the stop .
in the event they are , i look forward to clearing my name and proving my innocence . " .
the arrest will not affect jackson 's status for sunday 's game .
the nfl 's collective bargaining agreement gives the league , not teams , authority to punish players for alcohol and substance abuses .
any discipline by the league would be meted out for the 2009 season , several sources said .
a suspension certainly is possible .
the nfl 's substance-abuse policy states : " discipline for a second or subsequent offense is likely to be a suspension , the duration of which may escalate for repeat offenses . " .
jared allen , then with kansas city , was suspended for the first four games of the 2007 season after being charged with dui twice in one year .
the nfl later reduced his suspension to two games .
chargers players had the day off yesterday .
general manager a.j. smith issued the following statement on jackson 's arrest .
" we 're aware of the off-the-field issue involving vincent .
obviously , we 're disappointed .
we take these issues very seriously .
moving forward , we will monitor the situation and have no further comment . " .
jackson was driving a 2008 gmc sierra registered to him , baehr said .
he was booked into county jail and was released by 6 a.m. , baehr said .
jackson , in his fourth season , caught a career-high 59 passes and led the team with 1,098 yards , also a career high .
his seven receiving touchdowns were also a career best and second on the team .
earlier this week , smith called jackson a " true professional " and " ultimate team player " for how hard jackson played even while not catching any passes .
" you win championships with players like vincent jackson , " smith said .
the general manager has put an emphasis on character and avoiding off-the-field issues .
the chargers have not had any arrests become public this season and have been relatively trouble-free in recent years .
in 2006 , linebacker steve foley was shot by an off-duty coronado policeman who suspected foley of driving under the influence .
foley pleaded guilty to misdemeanor drunken driving and was placed on five years ' probation .
in july , he settled a lawsuit against the city of coronado for $ 5.5 million .
jackson 's contract runs through 2009 , and he is among the hottest young receivers in the league .
what becomes of this incident , combined with the previous dui , could affect jackson 's long-term future with the chargers .
smith has let go a number of players who have had off-the-field troubles .
while none was as productive or possessed the upside of jackson , smith did last february release tackle shane olivea just two years after signing olivea to a contract that guaranteed him $ 9 million .
olivea later underwent treatment for an addiction to pain killers .
" you 're a charger one year at a time , " smith has often said .
recently , speaking of the lack of incidents involving his players , smith said , " it 's very important if you want to be a charger you do the right things on and off the field . " .
the chargers leave friday for pittsburgh , where they will face the steelers at 1:45 p.m. sunday .
chargers lineman jamal williams faces dui charges .
10 : 55 p . m . feb . 2 , 2009 .
chargers defensive lineman jamal williams was arrested early sunday on suspicion of drunken driving after he was speeding down state route 94 , the california highway patrol said .
williams , 32 , was going west in his 2008 bentley about 1 : 30 a . m . , chp officer brian pennings said .
he said he did not know how fast williams was going .
a chp officer pulled williams over near home avenue east of downtown , in the ridgeview / webster area .
pennings said williams gave a blood sample for a blood - alcohol test , but the results are not yet known .
williams was booked into county jail and later was released on bail .
another charger , receiver vincent jackson , was arrested early jan . 6 on suspicion of driving under the influence on state route 52 near interstate 805 .
jackson said in a statement at the time that he looked forward to proving his innocence .
chargers receiver arrested for dui .
san diego chargers receiver vincent jackson was arrested on suspicion of drunk driving on tuesday morning , five days before a key nfl playoff game .
police apprehended jackson at about 2:30 a.m. and booked him for the misdemeanour before his release , making for a long night with a playoff looming on sunday at pittsburgh against the steelers .
jackson enjoyed the best of his four nfl seasons in 2008 with 59 catches for 1,098 yards and seven touchdowns .
" we 're aware of the off-the-field issue involving vincent , " chargers general manager a.j. butler said in a statement .
" obviously we 're disappointed .
we take these issues very seriously .
moving forward , we will monitor the situation . " .
williams' dui arrest just the latest for chargers .
team has program to address problem .
2 a . m . feb . 4 , 2009 .
two years ago , the chargers won an nfl special award for helping start a san diego program by which players who've been imbibing can call a private number for a ride home , an alternative to driving under the influence .
a former chargers fullback , lorenzo neal , was among the co - founders of the " safe ride solutions " program that since has been expanded to other nfl cities .
evidently , though , the drinking and driving problem hasn't been eradicated in san diego .
sunday , for the second time in less than four weeks , a chargers player was pulled over in the early - morning hours and arrested on suspicion of dui .
" it's disappointing to hear about the issue involving jamal williams , " said general manager a . j . smith in a news release issued by the team yesterday .
" we'll continue to monitor the situation and let the legal process run its course . " .
smith's statement served as the only comment from the chargers .
a request to interview club president dean spanos was declined by a spokesman .
as it is , the chargers are still awaiting the disposition of a similar case involving wide receiver vincent jackson , arrested jan . 6 in clairemont on suspicion of driving under the influence .
jackson , also facing charges of driving while on probation for a prior dui , has an arraignment set for feb . 17 in san diego superior court .
williams , a three - time pro bowl nose tackle , was stopped for speeding westbound on state route 94 at approximately 1 : 30 a . m sunday .
arrested by the chp on suspicion of drunken driving , he was booked into county jail and later released on bond .
results of williams' blood - alcohol test have not been released .
" these are just two more arrests that we've had , " said pat hodgkin , local executive director of mothers against drunk driving ( madd ) , noting that roughly 13 , 000 dui convictions are issued every year in san diego county .
" however , these are media - worthy professionals .
these are individuals that not only youth looks up to , but adults look up to as well .
they need to understand that they have an effect on people and a responsibility . " .
the chargers were involved in one of the most publicized and bizarre instances of a dui stop in 2006 .
linebacker steve foley was shot three times by an off - duty coronado police officer who followed foley from downtown to the player's home in poway .
foley , his career ended by the bullet wounds , later pleaded guilty to misdemeanor dui .
it was that case that prompted gary lawrence , a detective with the northern division of the san diego police department , to ally with the chargers in a program in which players who've been drinking would call " safe ride solutions " and be driven home by an off - duty member of law enforcement .
" anytime anybody's arrested for dui , i get very disappointed , and not just when athletes are involved , " said lawrence yesterday .
" we're talking about a crime where people are killed or injured , a crime where people go to jail , and it's 100 percent preventable . " .
citing his company's confidentiality agreement with clients , lawrence declined to discuss anything specific pertaining to the chargers and their players .
from its start with the team , though , the business has grown to include clients from other high - profile realms and put to work by other nfl franchises .
in recognition of the program , the league gave the chargers its winston - shell award in 2007 for " demonstrating commitment and dedication to developing unique and innovative ideas and solutions . " .
charger says he 's innocent of dui .
wide receiver jackson says he does n't think charges will be filed .
san diego chargers wide receiver vincent jackson was arrested yesterday on suspicion of drunken driving .
jackson failed sobriety tests shortly after 2 a.m. on state route 52 in san diego , said california highway patrol officer ray scheidnes .
he said he did n't know jackson 's blood-alcohol level .
an officer stopped jackson after spotting the player braking abruptly , speeding and weaving in a 2008 gmc sierra , said highway patrol officer brad baehr .
jackson was on probation for a previous dui arrest , he said .
the player was taken to the san diego county jail and later released .
jackson , in a brief statement released through the team , said he did n't think charges would be filed against him .
" in the event they are , i look forward to clearing my name and proving my innocence , " he said .
a gun owned by indianapolis colts star marvin harrison was used in an april shooting , but investigators still can not determine who pulled the trigger , the city 's chief prosecutor said yesterday .
five of the six bullet casings found at the north philadelphia shooting scene came from harrison 's weapon , but investigators have conflicting witness accounts of who fired it , philadelphia district attorney lynne abraham said .
no charges have been filed in the april 28 shooting and the investigation remains open .
bruce smith - the nfl 's career sacks leader - rod woodson , shannon sharpe and john randle are among the 15 finalists for induction into the pro football hall of fame , the only first-year eligible players to make the final round this year .
joining them will be two contributors - former commissioner paul tagliabue and buffalo bills owner ralph wilson - as well as two senior nominees selected last august by the senior committee - former atlanta defensive end claude humphrey and former dallas wide receiver bob hayes .
between four and seven candidates will be elected in the balloting that will take place on jan. 31 , the day before the super bowl .
a former new england patriots lineman and high school football coach in walpole , mass. , has been released on bail as he awaits trial on charges he raped a 15-year-old girl .
daniel villa posted $ 7,500 ( u.s. ) bail yesterday and was fitted for an electronic monitoring bracelet .
the conditions of villa 's bail include staying away from children under 16 .
charger jamal williams arrested on suspicion of dui .
february 5 , 2009 .
for the second time in less than a month , a member of the san diego chargers has been arrested on suspicion of drunk driving .
according to the california highway patrol , defensive tackle jamal williams was arrested on suspicion of drunken driving last weekend on a freeway outside downtown .
williams , who was booked into county jail and later released on bail , did give a blood sample for a blood - alcohol test .
however the results have not yet been divulged .
just last month , wide receiver vincent jackson , who was on probation for a previous dui arrest , was pulled over for investigation of dui .
that arrest was just five days prior to the team's second - round playoff loss at pittsburgh .
in a statement released by the team , general manager a . j . smith noted , "it's disappointing to hear about the issue involving jamal williams .
we'll continue to monitor the situation and let the legal process run its course .
the chargers have always been leaders and positive contributors to our community .
we take our stature in the community very seriously . " .
while everyone is human , this appears to be yet another case of a professional athlete not using the matter that is provided to all of us between our ears .
with more and more professional athletes making news these days , and oftentimes not for the right reasons , it is no wonder many people have trouble relating with the pros .
salaries that the common man generally doesn't see and an attitude of not caring in many cases is just part of the problem .
while williams and jackson are presumed innocent , hopefully both of them learn a lesson .
at the end of the day , their alleged actions not only impact them , but that family of four , the couple out on a date , or the guy returning home from his work shift .
when you get behind the wheel of your car drunk , you could ruin more than just your life .
chargers ' receiver arrested .
san diego chargers wide receiver vincent jackson was arrested yesterday on suspicion of drunken driving .
jackson failed sobriety tests shortly after 2 a.m. local time on state route 52 , california highway patrol officer ray scheidnes said .
jackson was on probation for a previous similar arrest , he said .
jackson , in a statement released through the nfl team , said he did n't think charges would be filed against him .
" in the event they are , i look forward to clearing my name and proving my innocence , " he said .
chargers " jamal williams arrested for dui .
on february 4 , 2009 .
chargers defensive tackle jamal williams was arrested early sunday for suspicions of driving under the influence .
williams was pulled over by the california highway patrol for speeding in a san diego freeway .
he was given a blood alcohol test but the results have not been revealed .
he was taken to the county jail where he was booked and released on bail .
according to authorities , he was driving his bentley at about 1 : 00 am sunday on highway 94 when the cops stopped him .
this is the second dui related arrest for the team .
earlier this year , star receiver vincent jackson was arrested for drunk driving a few days before their play - off game .
chargers ' jackson arrested on suspicion of dui .
chargers wide receiver vincent jackson was arrested early yesterday on suspicion of drunken driving .
jackson failed sobriety tests shortly after 2 a.m. on state route 52 in san diego , said california highway patrol officer ray scheidnes .
he said he did n't know jackson 's blood alcohol level .
jackson was on probation for a previous dui arrest , highway patrol officer brad baehr said .
he was taken to the san diego county jail and released .
city attorney weighs filing dui charges against chargers' jamal williams .
posted : apr 02 , 2009 11 : 06 pm cest .
updated : apr 02 , 2009 11 : 06 pm cest .
the city attorney's office was considering today whether to file misdemeanor drunken - driving charges against chargers defensive lineman jamal williams .
williams , 32 , was arrested around 1 : 30 a . m . feb . 1 on state route 94 on suspicion of drunken driving .
results from a blood - alcohol test administered when williams was arrested were released wednesday , showing a level of 0 . 07 percent - - just under the state legal limit of 0 . 08 percent , california highway patrol officer brian pennings told the san diego union - tribune .
he said the blood was drawn well after williams' arrest , meaning he could have been intoxicated when when officers pulled him over for speeding in his 2008 bentley .
city attorney spokeswoman gina coburn told the union - tribune the case remains under review and is being investigated further .
san diego 's jackson is arrested on suspicion of drunk driving .
he allegedly fails sobriety tests after being stopped on san diego freeway .
he releases statement saying he doubts charges will be filed and looks forward to proving his innocence .
san diego chargers wide receiver vincent jackson was arrested tuesday on suspicion of drunk driving .
jackson failed sobriety tests shortly after 2 a.m. on state route 52 in san diego , a california highway patrol officer said .
jackson , whose blood-alcohol level was unknown , was on probation for a previous dui arrest .
the player was taken to the san diego county jail and released .
chargers general manager a.j. smith said he was aware of jackson 's " off-the-field issue . " .
jackson , in a statement released through the team , said he did n't think charges would be filed against him .
" in the event they are , i look forward to clearing my name and proving my innocence , " he said .
chargers' williams arrested on suspicion of dui .
2 / 3 / 2009 5 : 59 : 13 pm .
san diego chargers defensive tackle jamal williams was arrested on suspicion of drunk driving , the team's second such arrest in less than a month .
williams was pulled over for speeding early sunday on a freeway outside the city's downtown area , the california highway patrol said .
williams gave a blood sample for a blood - alcohol test , but the results were not yet known .
williams was booked into county jail and later released on bail .
the city attorney's office said the case hadn't been submitted as of tuesday .
chargers general manager a . j . smith did not return a call .
chargers receiver vincent jackson was arrested for investigation of dui on jan . 6 , five days before san diego's playoff loss at pittsburgh .
jackson is due in court feb . 17 .
he was on probation for a previous dui arrest , the california highway patrol said .
williams , an 11 - year veteran , shared the team's most valuable player award with quarterback philip rivers this season .
the chargers reached the playoffs with an 8 - 8 record .
chargers ' jackson arrested on suspicion of dui .
san diego chargers wide receiver vincent jackson was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence early tuesday morning .
according to the san diego union-tribune , jackson was pulled over on state route 52 just past 2:30 a.m. in the clairemont section of san diego , following an observed traffic violation .
he was booked and later released .
jackson could be facing misdemeanors on the alleged dui itself in addition to violating probation for a prior dui charge .
jackson released a statement through the team later tuesday .
" yesterday i was stopped by an officer .
i do n't think any charges will be filed as a result of the stop .
in the event they are , i look forward to clearing my name and proving my innocence . " .
a fourth-year pro out of northern colorado , jackson enjoyed a breakout year for the chargers this season .
he set career-highs of 59 receptions , 1,098 yards and seven touchdowns .
san diego knocked off the indianapolis colts , 23-17 , in last saturday 's afc wild card matchup after posting a 52-21 thumping over division rival denver in a regular season finale that decided the afc west champion .
the chargers are getting set to take on the pittsburgh steelers sunday in an afc divisional playoff tilt .
chargers jamal williams arrested for dui .
in the steeped nfl tradition of drinking and driving , chargers nt jamal williams is doing his part to uphold the tradition .
of course , football is the ultimate team game and fellow charger vincent jackson was arrested last month for dui as well .
although results are pending for the blood - alcohol test that williams took , he has been booked and later released on bail .
while i make fun of a topic that definitely isn't funny , i still don't understand how these players with their multi - million dollar salaries don't hire drivers or car services .
san diego chargers receiver vincent jackson has been arrested on suspicion of drink- driving five days before a key nfl playoff game .
police arested him in san diego at 2.30am and booked him before releasing him .
the chargers are due to meet pittsburgh steelers in a playoff match on sunday .
victory in that game would see them meet either tennessee or baltimore for a spot in next month 's super bowl .
jackson is enjoying the best of his four nfl seasons in the current campaign with 59 catches for 1098 yards and seven touchdowns .
" we 're aware of the off-the-field issue involving vincent , " chargers general manager aj butler said in a statement .
" obviously we 're disappointed .
we take these issues very seriously .
moving forward , we will monitor the situation . " .
hey , jamal williams : hire a driver !
thursday , apr 2 , 2009 | updated 1 : 32 pm pdt .
the city attorney's office is considering whether to file misdemeanor drunk - driving charges against chargers defensive lineman jamal williams .
williams , 32 , was pulled over for speeding in his bentley on state route 94 around 1 : 30 a . m . on february 1 , but was arrested on suspicion of drunk driving .
he had refused a breathalyzer test and was given a blood - alcohol test instead .
the results from the test were released wednesday and showed a level of 0 . 07 percent - - just under the california legal limit of 0 . 08 percent .
chp officer brian pennings said that the blood had been drawn well after williams' arrest , meaning he could have been intoxicated when officers had pulled him over .
city attorney spokeswoman gina coburn said the case remains under review and is being investigated further .
polygamist prophet warren jeffs charged againjuly 23 , 2008 . 4 : 49 pm .
seven indictments , nine charges and six leaders of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints now face trial in texas .
among them is flds prophet warren jeffs , who has already been convicted in utah on two counts of being an accomplice to the rape of a 14 - year - old girl and is now awaiting trial on similar charges in arizona .
the flds also has followers living in bountiful , b . c . bountiful has been the object of scrutiny by the rcmp and the b . c . attorney general since 2004 .
a special prosecutor , terry robertson , was appointed in june to determine whether charges should be laid .
the texas grand jury heard evidence collected during the april raid on the eldorado compound that resulted in more than 400 women and children being taken into protective custody .
they were later allowed to return to the compound after a texas appeal court ruled that the child protection officials had overstepped their legal boundaries .
the grand jury also heard testimony from at least four flds women including prophet warren jeffs's 16 - year - old daughter who her father placed into a religious marriage to an older man when she was just 15 .
the texas charge against jeffs is a first - degree felony count of sexually assaulting an under - aged girl .
the other men - none of whom have yet been named - face charges related to sexual assault of under - aged girls and bigamy .
jeffs will not be tried in texas until he goes to court in arizona .
matt smith , the county attorney in mohave county , az . said in a press release wednesday that he had heard about the charges , but "the indictments in texas do not affect the arizona case at all . " .
the americans have taken a very different approach to the flds .
in utah , arizona and texas , the main thrust of the investigation has been the sexual abuse of under - aged girls .
in british columbia , attorney - general wally oppal has focused his attention mainly on the criminal code offence of polygamy .
warren jeffs trial : defends 'spiritual' marriage , polygamy .
july 29 , 2011|10 : 57 pm .
warren jeffs , leader of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints , who has been silent since his trial began last thursday , spoke for the first time with the jury present friday .
jeffs is charged with two counts of sexual assault for raping two under - aged girls and fathering a child with one of the girls .
objecting to the testimony from an fbi agent about documents seized from his church's compound in 2008 , jeffs delivered a 55 - minute speech arguing that the raid on the church was illegal and that charges brought upon him and other members of the flds were unwarranted .
"you are now touching that which is sacred .
thus on these grounds we call upon this court to render justice before sacred trust is trampled upon , " jeffs said during his objection .
during the raid of the yearning for zion ranch , executed after a tip that turned out to be a hoax , police witnessed several underage girls who were heavily pregnant .
this led to the arrest of jeffs as well as 11 other men of the flsd .
thus far , seven men have been tried and convicted of sexual assault and bigamy , among other crimes , and have received sentences of between six and 75 years .
jeffs himself may receive up to 119 - years in prison if convicted .
in his testimony on friday , jeffs said there was no crime , explaining that he and both girls had a "spiritual" marriage bond .
he went on to say that the flds must "follow the law set out for it by god . " .
"if we do not live these laws we are damned here and hereafter .
we believe in a marriage system of eternity called celestial marriage , wherein celestial means heavenly authorized , not to be intervened by government intervention , " jeffs said .
jeffs ended his speech by saying , "amen . " .
jeffs remained completely silent during the first four days of the trial , during which he dismissed his defense team in order to serve as his own defense , and refused to give an opening statement after the judge declined his request for more time to prepare .
"mr . jeffs , the court is not going to recess these proceeding to let you go to law school , " said u . s . district judge barbara walther .
in the meanwhile , special prosecutor for the texas attorney general's office , eric nichols , delivered his opening statement , detailing that he will submit as evidence an audio recording of jeffs having sex with a 12 - year - old as well as a dna report confirming jeffs as the father of a 15 - year - old flsd member's child .
jeffs remained silent throughout the prosecution's opening statement but interjected repeatedly during nichol's response to his speech .
judge walther recessed the court and directed that jeffs speak with his counsel , who remains available in case they are needed , about proper court decorum .
director of criminal clinics for the texas tech school of law , patrick metze , commented on the case , saying jeffs won't be able to continue the trial without lawyers .
"at some point , the judge will have had enough , so it's not going to be a pleasnt experience and she's not just going to let him prophesize , " metze told the san angelo standard times .
2 leaders of polygamist group arrested in canada .
two top leaders of a polygamous community in western canada have been arrested and charged with practicing polygamy , british columbia 's attorney general said wednesday .
attorney general wally oppal said winston blackmore is charged with marrying 20 women , while james oler is accused of marrying two women .
" this has been a very complex issue , " oppal said .
" it 's been with us for well over 20 years . " .
blackmore , long known as " the bishop of bountiful , " runs an independent sect of about 400 members in the town of bountiful .
he once ran the canadian arm of the utah-based fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter-day saints , but was ejected in 2003 by that group 's leader , warren jeffs .
oler is the bishop of bountiful 's flds community loyal to jeffs .
even though many of the town 's residents are related or have same last name , followers of the two leaders are splintered and are not allowed to talk with each other .
flds members practice polygamy in arranged marriages , a tradition tied to the early theology of the mormon church .
mormons renounced polygamy in 1890 as a condition of utah 's statehood .
last june , oppal appointed a special prosecutor to look into allegations of criminal abuse at bountiful despite two earlier legal opinions that said it would be difficult to proceed with criminal charges for polygamy itself .
blackmore openly acknowledges having numerous wives and dozens of children but has said his community abhors sexual abuse of children .
oppal said some legal experts believe polygamy charges will not withstand a constitutional challenge in canada over the issue of freedom of religion .
" i 've always taken the position that 's a valid offense in law , " oppal said .
" and if someone says that it 's contrary to their religion , let a judge make that decision . " .
the flds , with an estimated 10,000 members , is headquartered in colorado city , ariz. , and hildale , utah .
in 1947 , a small group moved just across the border into lister , british columbia .
the newcomers dubbed the pristine spot at the base of a snowy mountain range bountiful .
besides an estimated 1,000 canadians living in bountiful , the u.s. embassy estimates there are about 300 americans there who are loyal to blackmore and 200 others who follow jeffs , who is in jail awaiting trial in arizona on four counts of being an accomplice to sexual conduct with a minor .
warren jeffs found guilty on sexual assault charges .
on august 04 2011 5 : 46 pm .
a san antonio jury has found polygamist leader warren jeffs guilty on both sexual assault charges on thursday .
the 55 - year older leader of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints was charged with sexual assault of a child after taking a 12 - year old girl and a 15 - year girl as "spiritual wives . " .
he could be sentenced to up to 119 years in prison .
the jury's decision puts an end to a controversial case that saw jeffs represent himself against the charges .
jeffs largely avoided defending himself during the case , only offering a "i am at peace , " phrase as his closing statement .
the jury made its decision on the same day that the prosecution played a tape recording of what it alleged was jeffs sexually assaulting the 11 - year old girl .
polygamy arrests made in canada .
two leaders of polygamous factions in bountiful , british columbia , have been arrested , canadian authorities announced .
jim oler , 44 , and winston blackmore , 52 , have been charged under the criminal code with practicing polygamy , attorney general wally oppal said in a statement .
british columbia 's royal canadian mounted police have scheduled a news conference this afternoon .
the men were arrested this morning , said sgt. tim shields , a media relations officer for the rcmp .
the men were arrested this morning , said sgt. tim shields , a media relations officer for the rcmp .
their first court appearance is scheduled for creston provincial court on jan. 21 .
oler , accused of having two wives , is charged with " practicing polygamy " between nov. 1 , 2004 , and oct. 8 , 2008 .
blackmore , alleged to have 19 wives , is charged with " practicing polygamy " between may 1 , 2005 , and dec. 8 , 2006 .
oppal said a special prosecution into allegations of criminal misconduct in the community of bountiful , a self-named community near creston , led to the arrests .
" the arrests are the culmination of an intensive , seven-month charge assessment review by special prosecutor terrence robertson , " who explored whether the men were in " a conjungal relationship with more than one individual at a time , " oppal said .
he stressed the prosecution is independent of the criminal justice branch and the government of british columbia , pointing out robertson is an independent special prosecutor .
he declined to comment on the specifics of the case .
rcmp officers in creston began investigating allegations of polygamy and sexual exploitation in bountiful in the fall of 2005 , shields said in a statement .
the community , with a population of approximately 1,000 , follows the practices of the polygamous fundamentalist church of jesus christ on latter day saints .
that sect 's traditional base is hildale , utah and colorado city , arizona , but its outposts include the yearning for zion ranch in eldorado , texas .
texas officials raided the ranch last april and temporarily removed 439 children .
the canadian investigation focused on the two men in positions of authority , shields said .
it was completed in september 2006 with a report to crown counsel , which recommended charges of polygamy and sexual exploitation .
a follow-up investigation began in september and uncovered additional evidence supplied to robertson , the special prosecutor , in november .
in early december , he advised the rcmp he had approved one charge of polygamy against the two men .
the charges were sworn on tuesday .
the polygamous fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints is led president warren s. jeffs , now serving a sentence for being an accomplice to rape for conducting an underage marriage .
he faces similar charges in arizona and texas .
while the doctrine tying plural marriage to exaltation in heaven is rooted in early mormon theology , the mainstream church of jesus christ of latter-day saints disavowed polygamy in 1890 .
the issue of polygamy has fueled a long debate in canada .
after the initial probe into bountiful , attorneys said the canadian government could find no witnesses on sexual-assault allegations because investigators were told that everyone consented to the acts , and allegations of sexual exploitation of young women could not be substantiated .
polygamist leader warren jeffs sentenced to life in prison .
august 10 , 2011 - - updated 0947 gmt ( 1747 hkt ) .
polygamist leader warren jeffs was sentenced tuesday to life in prison plus 20 years for sexually assaulting two girls he claimed were his "spiritual wives . " .
jeffs , 55 , will have to spend at least 45 years in prison before being eligible for release , according to jerry strickland , spokesman for the texas attorney general's office .
the jury sentenced jeffs to life in prison for aggravated sexual assault of a 12 - year - old girl and 20 years in prison for the sexual assault of a 15 - year - old girl .
he must serve at least 35 years of the life sentence and half of the other sentence , strickland said .
the judge in the case ordered that the sentences be served consecutively .
"justice has been served , " jeffs' nephew , brent jeffs , told insession soon after the sentence .
he testified during the penalty phase of his uncle's trial that jeffs raped him when he was 5 years old .
"i finally had this day and it was an awesome day in court to be here , involved in all of this , " said brent jeffs , now 28 .
jeffs perverted his position as the head of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter - day saints to "satisfy his own personal appetites and desires , " prosecutor eric nichols said .
those appetites included forcing sex on the two girls , 12 and 15 , who he had taken as wives , prosecutors said .
audiotapes seized from his car and the church's yearning for zion ranch compound in eldorado , texas , and played for jurors during his trial , depicted jeffs offering "celestial marriage" instructions to the young wives , according to prosecutors .
"you have to know how to be sexually excited and to help each other . . . and you have to be ready for the time i need your comfort , " a man's voice says .
"this is your mission .
this is how you abide the law .
at one point , the man says , "take your clothes off .
do it right now , " followed by the sounds of crying .
"just don't think about the pain ; you're going to heaven , " the man says .
"rarely if ever in the criminal justice system in texas have we ever encouraged a person such as warren jeffs , whose criminal conduct spans decades , multiple jurisdictions and hundreds of victims , " nichols said .
a former member of the church , rebecca musser , said the verdict will not bring back lost innocence .
but she said it can help others escape from abuse they may have suffered .
"whether the currency is god or greed , the trafficking of women and children for sex is a form of slavery , " she said .
jeffs is the eighth person from the ranch to be convicted on sexual assault , bigamy and other charges , according to the texas attorney general's office .
four others are awaiting trial .
attorney general greg abbott said he believes authorities have rooted out the molesters from the ranch , but will continue to monitor the church's activities there .
"we have an ongoing open investigation that will evaluate all evidence about any kind of wrongdoing out there at the compound whatsoever , " abbott said .
jurors came back with the sentence after 30 minutes of deliberations tuesday .
they began their work tuesday morning following brief closing statements by prosecutor nichols .
jeffs , who has argued that he and his faith were being persecuted , instructed his attorneys to deliver no closing statement .
"this is not the prosecution to persecute a people , this is a prosecution to protect a people , " nichols told jurors .
jeffs did not attend the closing statement .
in addition to tape recordings that the state said depicted sex acts with minors , prosecutors also presented evidence that jeffs knew he was wanted by federal authorities and that his behavior would be shunned by outsiders .
fbi special agent john broadway testified that jeffs ordered the destruction of various discs and transcripts three days after an arrest warrant was issued for him on june 10 , 2005 .
the polygamist sect leader established "houses of hiding , " allegedly with young girls for him to marry , broadway said .
the fbi agent also read from a priesthood record , in which jeffs allegedly wrote : "things are happening so quickly .
there is an even younger girl that the lord wants me to take .
she is 13 .
for some reason the lord is sending me these girls that can be worked with . " .
jeffs also wrote : "if the world knew what i was doing , they would hang me from the highest tree , " according to evidence presented in court .
referring to that comment , prosecutor nichols said during his closing statement that "yes , this is texas .
but no , we don't hang convicts anymore from the highest tree , and we don't have the ability to call down the wrath of the almighty . . .
we as a people choose to isolate our worst offenders , to keep them away from their past and future victims . " .
jeffs' breakaway sect is believed to have about 10 , 000 followers .
their practice of polygamy , which the mainstream mormon church renounced more than a century ago , is part of the sect's doctrine .
b.c. attorney general confirms charges laid against top two polygamist leaders .
two top leaders of the controversial polygamous sect in bountiful , b.c. , have been arrested and charged with practising polygamy .
b.c. attorney general wally oppal confirmed that winston blackmore and james oler were arrested wednesday .
oppal said blackmore is alleged to be married to 20 women , while oler is accused of committing polygamy by being married to two women .
" this has been a very complex issue , " he told the canadian press .
" it 's been with us for well over 20 years .
the problem has always been the defence of religion has always been raised . " .
oppal said some legal experts have believed that a charge for practising polygamy would n't withstand a charter of rights challenge over the issue of freedom of religion .
" i 've always disagreed with that , " he said .
" i 've always taken the position that 's a valid offence in law .
and if someone says that it 's contrary to their religion let a judge make that decision . " .
he said he 's pleased a prosecution will proceed , providing some clarity to whether the law will be upheld by the courts .
oppal said in 2005 , when he was appointed attorney general , that he was concerned about the polygamy issue in bountiful " because of the exploitation of women and children . " .
the community had come under investigation in the past but oppal said he asked rcmp to reopen the investigation shortly after he was elected .
sgt. tim shields told reporters that creston rcmp began an investigation into allegations of polygamy and sexual exploitation in the fall of 2005 .
that investigation was completed in september 2006 and recommendation was made to crown for charges to be laid .
a follow-up investigation began last september and the two men were arrested this morning and taken to the rcmp detachment in cranbrook , b.c. , shields said .
the men were expected to appear in court wednesday afternoon .
last june , oppal appointed a special prosecutor to look into allegations of criminal abuse at bountiful , saying renewed public concerns compelled him to act .
that came despite two earlier legal opinions that it would be difficult to proceed with polygamy charges .
officials at the mormon hills school in bountiful , where blackmore is the superintendent , said he was arrested wednesday .
about 800 people live in the community in southeastern b.c. , where members of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints practice multiple marriage .
the sect is a breakaway offshoot of the mormon church , which renounced polygamy more than a century ago .
blackmore , who is the leader of one of two groups within the community , openly admits to having numerous wives and dozens of children but has said the community abhors sexual abuse of children .
however , blackmore has refused in previous interviews to discuss allegations that teenaged girls in the community marry older men or that others are sent to polygamous groups in the united states .
oler is the leader of the other group in the community , which has long been divided .
the issue of polygamy in british columbia came up again last year after more than 450 children were apprehended by child-welfare authorities from a sister polygamous community in texas .
at least one of the girls in that case was from bountiful , refocusing the spotlight on a community that has existed in relative obscurity in b.c. 's kootenays , not far from the u.s. border .
and polygamist leader warren jeffs , the sect 's prophet in the u.s. , is behind bars south of the border .
he was convicted in utah as an accomplice to rape and faces trial in arizona on other charges related to the marriages of members of sect there .
after the special prosecutor was announced , blackmore accused oppal of religious persecution .
" it can not possibly be about polygamy , " blackmore wrote in an email to the canadian press last june .
" it must be about his own religious bias and now he wants the liberal government to persecute some of the citizens that they have an obligation to serve and protect . " .
blackmore has said he has tried to meet with oppal in the past , but that the attorney general has refused .
warren jeffs , polygamist leader , convicted in child sexual assault case .
first posted : 08 / 04 / 11 06 : 44 pm et updated : 10 / 04 / 11 06 : 12 am et .
a texas jury convicted polygamist sect leader warren jeffs of child sexual assault thursday in a case stemming from two young followers he took as brides in what his church calls "spiritual marriages . " .
the 55 - year - old head of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints stood stone - faced as the verdict was read .
jeffs , who acted as his own attorney , faces up to life in prison .
the jury went immediately into sentencing proceedings .
they had deliberated on a verdict for more than three hours .
prosecutors used dna evidence to show jeffs fathered a child with a 15 - year - old girl and played an audio recording of what they said was him sexually assaulting a 12 - year - old girl .
they also played audio recordings in which jeffs was heard instructing young women on how to please him sexually .
jeffs has claimed he was the victim of religious persecution .
the flds , which has at least 10 , 000 members nationwide , is a radical offshoot of mainstream mormonism .
the church believes polygamy brings exaltation in heaven and that jeffs is god's spokesman on earth .
police had raided the group's remote west texas ranch in april 2008 , finding women dressed in frontier - style dresses and hairdos from the 19th century as well as seeing underage girls who were clearly pregnant .
the call to an abuse hotline that spurred the raid turned out to be a hoax , and more than 400 children who had been placed in protective custody were eventually returned to their families .
but authorities brought charges against several men from the group , with jeffs by far the highest - profile defendant .
jeffs stood mute and expressionless , staring at the floor , for all but a few seconds of the half hour he was allotted for a closing argument on thursday .
at one point he mumbled , "i am peace , " and said no more .
the only noise in the courtroom was the creaking of wooden benches brimming with spectators .
prosecutors said the case had nothing to do with his church or his beliefs .
"you have heard the defendant make repeated arguments about religious freedoms , " said lead prosecutor eric nichols .
"make no mistake , this case is not about any people , this case is not about any religion .
it is about one individual , warren steed jeffs , and his actions . " .
prosecutors relied heavily on information found during the raid on the compound and after a traffic stop in nevada in 2006 , when jeffs was arrested .
much of the material was discovered in a vault at the end of a secret passageway in the temple and another vault in an annex building .
"you might have asked yourselves , " nichols said , "a lot of people may ask , why would someone record sex ? . . .
this individual considers himself to be the prophet .
everything he did , hour after hour , he was required to keep a record of that . " .
on one of the tapes played at the trial , jeffs made a reference to "drawing close" or "being close , " which authorities testified is how church members refer to sex .
two female voices said "ok . " .
"a good wife is trained for her husband and follows the spirit of peace , " jeffs was heard saying .
another audio tape included jeffs and the younger girl from a recording made in august 2006 at the texas compound , according to testimony from nick hanna , a texas ranger involved in the 2008 raid .
played in court , it was difficult to decipher , but jeffs' and a female voice are heard .
he says , "i perform this service in the name of jesus christ , amen , " then mentions the alleged victim by name .
when she says something , he responds , "don't talk while praying . " .
several minutes of heavy breathing followed .
the jury wore headphones to better hear the recording and also followed a transcript .
one female juror covered her face with her hand as she listened .
jeffs represented himself after firing seven attorneys in the six months leading to the trial .
he broke his courtroom silence with an objection marked by a nearly hourlong speech defending polygamy , and twice threatened the judge and the court with warnings of punishment from god .
he refused to cross - examine the state's witnesses , and delayed giving an opening statement until he began presenting his own defense .
in that statement , he evoked images of the civil rights movement and mentioned former mormon leader joseph smith jr .
he also asked the jury to remember constitutional guarantees of religious freedom .
the lone defense witness jeffs called , church elder jd roundy , spent about 10 minutes on the stand thursday discussing flds history after 4 . 5 hours of testimony wednesday evening .
jeffs failed three times to remove state district judge barbara walther from the case , the last rejection coming even without a hearing .
he claimed walther was biased because she issued the warrant for the original raid and was frequently updated as it progressed .
eleven other flds men were charged with crimes including sexual assault and bigamy .
all seven of those who have been prosecuted were convicted , receiving prison sentences of between six and 75 years .
canadian authorities filed charges on wednesday against the leader of a group that openly practices polygamy in british columbia and has links to u.s. polygamist communities , local media reported .
winston blackmore and another member of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints ( flds ) were arrested for violating a little-used law against polygamy , the vancouver sun reported on its website , citing court documents .
prosecutors and police refused to comment on the reports , but have scheduled a news conference in vancouver to discuss legal action involving two people from the religious community in bountiful , british columbia .
blackmore , 52 , was not available for comment .
the flds , an offshoot of the mainstream mormon church , also has communities in the united states , where its leader and self-proclaimed prophet , warren jeffs , has been convicted on charges of forcing underage women to marry older men .
british columbia attorney general wally oppal appointed a special prosecutor in june to investigate laying charges against the flds , which is believed to have about 700 members living in southeastern british columbia .
oppal had to use a special prosecutor because the province 's regular prosecution service had been openly reluctant to press polygamy charges on the grounds that the law might be ruled unconstitutional as a violation of religious rights .
blackmore has challenged authorities in the past to file charges against him , and has denied any criminal wrongdoing within the community .
texas jury hears warren jeffs sex tapes despite flds leader's objections .
published : tuesday , aug . 2 2011 7 : 08 p . m . mdt .
prosecutors tuesday put on the most shocking evidence yet in the trial of warren jeffs , who is charged with sexually assaulting underage girls .
prosecutors played two audio recordings of jeffs instructing his 14 - year - old "spiritual wife" and several other young women on how to please him sexually , and thus win favor with god .
jeffs seemed determined to halt the trial , and the judge repeatedly warned him to stop talking and sit down - even threatened to kick him out of his own trial .
once the jury had headphones and started listening to a recording , jeffs repeatedly objected , interrupting the recording many times .
on the tape , jeffs' voice drones on for well over two hours , using biblical language and sometimes speaking in the voice of god , counseling a number of his plural wives to perform what he calls the "ordinance of heavenly comfort . " .
he promises they will feel the all - consuming fire of heaven , and by giving comfort to their husband , they will be touching god .
the recordings were part of the mountain of documents seized in a law enforcement raid in 2008 .
on the recording , there are many long minutes in which it's hard to make out exactly what's happening .
but it seems to include sounds of fumbling with clothing , sobbing , flushing of toilets .
at one point jeffs tells the girls or women , "you have to know how to be excited sexually .
you have to be able to assist each other . " .
it all ends with prayers and supposed revelations from god , and jeffs himself singing a hymn .
jeffs , 55 , is head of the utah - based fundamentalist lds church , which believes polygamy brings exaltation in heaven .
he is accused of sexually assaulting two girls , ages 12 and 15 , he took as brides in what his church calls "spiritual marriages . " .
a forensic analyst testified monday that jeffs was the father of the 15 - year - old's child .
on tuesday , prosecutors also played a tape of jeffs talking to the girl when she was 14 , after texas ranger nick hanna testified about documents and electronic files seized during a 2008 police raid at the church's remote compound in west texas .
among the materials recovered during the raid was a record of jeffs' marriage "for time and all eternity" with the 14 - year - old in january 2004 .
an excerpt from hundreds of pages of jeffs' personal journals said the child was "pure and innocent and willing to obey" and that he summoned her parents and "informed them of their girl belonging to me . " .
followers see jeffs as a prophet who is god's spokesman on earth .
hanna read from jeffs' journals , which said he took the 14 - year - old the night after their wedding with him and another of his new wives on a car ride for "training . " .
there , he instructed them on their responsibilities as his wives and had the session taped .
the recording was transcribed and placed in church records later seized by police .
lead prosecutor eric nichols played the tape for jurors , who followed along using transcripts .
"a good wife is trained for her husband and follows the spirit of peace , " jeffs is heard saying .
he also makes reference to "drawing close" or "being close , " which is how church members refer to sex .
two female voices say "ok . " .
in describing the session in his journal later , jeffs said he told his wives they were "honorable vessels , property of your husband's kingdom and the kingdom of god on earth . " .
jeffs has represented himself since firing his high - powered attorneys last week .
later , nichols played a 58 - minute clip of another so - called training session from december 2004 , this one involving what he described as 12 "young" ladies , including the one from the first recording .
jeffs stood up and talked over it , rambling about how a holy trust was being broken .
"i am but a mortal man seeking peace , " he said .
"i am not a threat to anyone .
my faith is my only weapon . " .
prosecutors have promised to play still another recording - this one of jeffs having sex with the 12 - year - old girl - before resting their case .
nichols told walther they would do so at the end of a court session that stretched late into tuesday night .
before the recordings , hanna read excerpts of jeffs' journal where he described the lord ordering him to visit eldorado , texas , about 45 miles south of san angelo , and the church purchasing 1 , 700 acres of land outside the town for $1 . 2 million in 2003 .
"this will only be a place of refuge if it is kept sacred and secret , " jeffs wrote , adding that his followers should populate the area and let "a community grow here more in hiding before the neighbors find out . " .
he told the faithful they could build anything they wanted , thanks to texas' lax zoning laws , and construction teams working around - the - clock erected more than a dozen buildings , including a sprawling , white - limestone temple .
texas authorities raided the compound in april 2008 after receiving a call to an abuse hotline that turned out to be a hoax .
more than 400 flds children who were placed in protective custody were eventually returned to their families .
but police saw underage girls who were clearly pregnant and found jeffs' journals and the other documents in a vault at the end of a secret passageway in the temple .
another vault in an annex building provided still more records and files .
jeffs and 11 other flds men were charged with crimes including sexual assault and bigamy .
so far , all seven who have been prosecuted have been convicted , receiving prison sentences of between six and 75 years .
two leaders in the polygamous community of bountiful , b.c. , have been charged with practising polygamy under the criminal code .
winston blackmore , 52 , and james oler , 44 , were arrested by rcmp on tuesday , attorney general wally oppal said at a news conference wednesday .
oler is the bishop of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints , while blackmore is the former flds bishop who was ousted in 2002 after a power struggle with the sect 's prophet warren jeffs .
the two men were to appear in court wednesday after an " intensive " seven-month investigation , oppal said .
" mr. blackmore it is alleged that he has committed polygamy with approximately 20 people , " oppal said .
" and as far as oler is concerned it is alleged that he has committed polygamy with two women . " .
blackmore has been charged with " practising polygamy " on may 1 , 2005 and oler has been charged with the same crime on nov. 1 , 2004 , according to provincial court files .
" i am pleased a prosecution will be proceeding , as it will provide legal clarity as to the constitutionality of section 293 of the criminal code ( concerning polygamy ) , " oppal said in a statement .
news of the charges was welcomed by audrey vance , co-chair of altering destiny through education , which is based in creston , b.c. , not far from bountiful .
vance has lobbied for charges against bountiful residents .
" we all know this is a cult and we have to do something to address this because in canada women do have equal rights , " she said in an interview wednesday .
blackmore , who has had 26 wives and more than 100 children , is outspoken in his belief that the charter of rights and freedoms protects his religious practice of polygamy - a tenet that was set out by mormonism 's founder joseph smith , but was denounced by the mainstream church in 1890 .
at a polygamy summit in 2006 , blackmore admitted that he had had " several " very young " wives " including one who was under 16 .
he repeated that when he was interviewed by cnn 's larry king .
blackmore lost his role as the bountiful bishop after his disagreement with jeffs , the church 's prophet who has been convicted of being an accomplice to the rape of a minor in utah and is currently in jail in arizona facing similar charges there .
jeffs and other senior flds members have also been charged in texas with offences related to the so-called " spiritual marriages " to under-aged girls .
blackmore now leads a breakaway group that lives in the southeastern corner of b.c. and is the head of the mormon hills school society , which runs a government-funded , independent school .
over the years , blackmore amassed a multi-million-dollar business empire that included a post-and-pole company , logging operations and a large farm .
little is known about oler , a mechanic .
he has never spoken to the media and there are few photos of him .
however , people within the community have confirmed that oler has at least three wives , several of whom were in their teens when they were assigned to him in placement marriages by jeffs .
prophet to pedophile : polygamist warren jeffs sentenced to life in prison .
warren jeffs , leader of the polygamist flds religious sect , was sentenced to life in prison in texas , convicted of sexually assaulting two girls , aged 15 and 12 , that he claimed as his 'brides . ' .
august 9 , 2011 .
polygamist sect leader warren jeffs was sentenced to life in a texas prison on tuesday following his conviction on charges that he sexually assaulted two young girls he claimed as "brides . " .
the sentencing at state district court in san angelo brings to a conclusion an often bizarre trial that pitted a self - proclaimed religious prophet against state prosecutors seeking to expose mr . jeffs as a pedophile .
after the sentence was announced , prosecutor eric nichols said jeffs had "corrupted and perverted" his position of authority and the religious convictions of his own community to victimize women and children "to satisfy his own appetites and desires . " .
prosecutors charged that the 55 - year - old sect leader sexually assaulted two girls , ages 12 and 15 , by arranging illegal marriages under the guise of his religious beliefs .
they presented a dna report that showed that jeffs had fathered a child with the 15 year old .
prosecutors also played an audio recording of jeffs allegedly engaging in sexual intercourse with the 12 - year - old .
the recording was seized when jeffs was arrested in 2006 .
jeffs is the leader of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter - day saints ( flds ) .
the sect is unaffiliated with the mainstream church of jesus christ of latter - day saints , also known as the mormon church .
an estimated 10 , 000 flds followers live in communities in utah , arizona , and texas .
they believe polygamy is a means to gain divine acceptance .
jeffs is believed to have 78 wives , 24 of them under age 17 , according to prosecutors .
rather than focus on jeffs's multiple marriages , prosecutors with the texas attorney general's office presented a case based on alleged violations of the laws of consent in texas .
twelve - and 15 - year - old girls are not old enough to consent to engage in sexual activities .
under texas law , any sexual activity between an adult and an under - 17 - year - old is a sexual assault even if the minor is a willing participant .
the same activity with an under - 14 - year - old is aggravated sexual assault punishable by up to life in prison .
during the penalty phase of the case , prosecutors played an audio tape of jeffs allegedly preparing five other young girls to have sex with him .
he encouraged his "child brides" to set aside all their inhibitions .
prosecutors also showed jurors a page from one of jeffs's personal journals .
the 2005 entry says : "if the world knew what i was doing , they would hang me from the highest tree . " .
jeffs became leader of the flds upon the death of his father in 2002 .
jeffs claimed the prosecution was a form of persecution targeting his religious beliefs .
prior to the trial he fired seven lawyers , and ultimately tried to represent himself .
trial observers said he often paused for long periods of silence before resuming .
at one point , rather than present a closing statement , he stood motionless and silent before the jury .
jeffs boycotted most of the penalty phase of his trial .
he was represented by stand - by counsel , appointed by judge barbara walther .
the case against jeffs stemmed from documents recovered in an april 2008 raid on the fdls compound near eldorado , texas .
prosecutors also introduced evidence seized from a vehicle when jeffs was arrested as a fugitive in 2006 .
at one point he was listed on the fbi's top ten wanted list .
after his arrest , jeffs stood trial and was convicted in utah for his role in allegedly arranging marriages among his followers .
he was found guilty , but the conviction was overturned on appeal .
jeffs was sentenced to life in prison for his assault on the 12 - year - old .
he received a 20 - year sentence for the assault on the 15 - year - old .
the two sentences are to be served consecutively .
in addition to jeffs , seven other elder members of the flds sect have been convicted in texas trials or pleaded guilty .
they have received sentences ranging from six to 75 years .
four more flds members are awaiting trial .
bountiful polygamous leaders charged .
rcmp sgt. tim shields and attorney-general wally oppal announced wednesday that the rcmp arrested two bountiful residents , winston k. blackmore , 52 , and james oler , 44 , on charges of polygamy .
the arrests are the culmination of the most recent seven-month charge assessment review by special prosecutor terrence robertson .
shields said both oler and blackmore were arrested wednesday morning without incident by eight plainclothes rcmp officers in unmarked vehicles .
both men are currently in the cranbrook rcmp detachment lockup , but are expected to be released once they appear before a justice of the peace wednesday afternoon .
the polygamy charge against blackmore involves 20 individuals , while the charge against oler involves only two .
blackmore leads about half the bountiful commune , while oler leads the other half .
last june , oppal hired robertson to investigate whether charges should be laid against the openly polygamist members of the bountiful commune , where older men routinely are married , legally and common-law , to much younger women .
oppal instructed b.c. 's criminal justice branch to review the latest developments in an ongoing police investigation and reconsider criminal charges , after two previous prosecutors warned such charges could trigger a charter challenge based on freedom of religion .
oppal has stated his intention to punish any transgressions of laws to protect children .
blackmore recently accused oppal of religious persecution for pursuing the police investigation .
warren jeffs convicted of child sexual assault charges .
published thursday , august 4 , 2011 5 : 55pm edt .
a texas jury convicted polygamist sect leader warren jeffs of child sexual assault thursday in a case stemming from two young followers he took as brides in what his church calls "spiritual marriages . " .
the 55 - year - old head of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints stood stone - faced as the verdict was read .
jeffs , who acted as his own attorney , faces up to life in prison .
the jury went immediately into sentencing proceedings .
they had deliberated on a verdict for more than three hours .
police had raided the group's remote west texas ranch in april 2008 , finding women dressed in frontier - style dresses and hairdos from the 19th century as well as seeing underage girls who were clearly pregnant .
the call to an abuse hotline that spurred the raid turned out to be a hoax , and more than 400 children who had been placed in protective custody were eventually returned to their families .
but authorities brought charges against several men from the group , with jeffs by far the highest - profile defendant .
prosecutors used dna evidence to show jeffs fathered a child with a 15 - year - old girl and played an audio recording of what they said was him sexually assaulting a 12 - year - old girl .
they also played audio recordings in which jeffs was heard instructing young women on how to please him sexually .
jeffs has claimed he was the victim of religious persecution .
the flds , which has at least 10 , 000 members nationwide , is a radical offshoot of mainstream mormonism .
the church believes polygamy brings exaltation in heaven and that jeffs is god's spokesman on earth .
jeffs stood mute and expressionless , staring at the floor , for all but a few seconds of the half hour he was allotted for a closing argument on thursday .
at one point he mumbled , "i am peace , " and said no more .
the only noise in the courtroom was the creaking of wooden benches brimming with spectators .
prosecutors said the case had nothing to do with his church or his beliefs .
"you have heard the defendant make repeated arguments about religious freedoms , " said lead prosecutor eric nichols .
"make no mistake , this case is not about any people , this case is not about any religion .
it is about one individual , warren steed jeffs , and his actions . " .
prosecutors relied heavily on information found during the raid on the compound and after a traffic stop in nevada in 2006 , when jeffs was arrested .
much of the material was discovered in a vault at the end of a secret passageway in the temple and another vault in an annex building .
"you might have asked yourselves , " nichols said , "a lot of people may ask , why would someone record sex ? . . .
this individual considers himself to be the prophet .
everything he did , hour after hour , he was required to keep a record of that . " .
on one of the tapes played at the trial , jeffs made a reference to "drawing close" or "being close , " which authorities testified is how church members refer to sex .
two female voices said "ok . " .
"a good wife is trained for her husband and follows the spirit of peace , " jeffs was heard saying .
another audio tape included jeffs and the younger girl from a recording made in august 2006 at the texas compound , according to testimony from nick hanna , a texas ranger involved in the 2008 raid .
played in court , it was difficult to decipher , but jeffs' and a female voice are heard .
he says , "i perform this service in the name of jesus christ , amen , " then mentions the alleged victim by name .
when she says something , he responds , "don't talk while praying . " .
several minutes of heavy breathing followed .
the jury wore headphones to better hear the recording and also followed a transcript .
one female juror covered her face with her hand as she listened .
jeffs represented himself after firing seven attorneys in the six months leading to the trial .
he broke his courtroom silence with an objection marked by a nearly hourlong speech defending polygamy , and twice threatened the judge and the court with warnings of punishment from god .
he refused to cross - examine the state's witnesses , and delayed giving an opening statement until he began presenting his own defence .
in that statement , he evoked images of the civil rights movement and mentioned former mormon leader joseph smith jr .
he also asked the jury to remember constitutional guarantees of religious freedom .
the lone defence witness jeffs called , church elder jd roundy , spent about 10 minutes on the stand thursday discussing flds history after 4 1 / 2 hours of testimony wednesday evening .
jeffs failed three times to remove state district judge barbara walther from the case , the last rejection coming even without a hearing .
he claimed walther was biased because she issued the warrant for the original raid and was frequently updated as it progressed .
eleven other flds men were charged with crimes including sexual assault and bigamy .
all seven of those who have been prosecuted were convicted , receiving prison sentences of between six and 75 years .
rcmp make arrests in bc polygamous community .
police have moved in and arrested at least two men from the religious community of bountiful in the bc interior .
bc attorney general wally opal issued a statement today saying that two men , winston blackmore and james oler , had been arrested " on charges of polygamy pursuant to the criminal code . " .
opal says the arrests are the product of a seven-month charge assessment review by special prosecutor terrence robertson .
opal points out that this prosecution is independent of both the criminal justice branch and the bc government .
critics have said it would be difficult to pursue polygamy charges against members of bountiful for fear that criminal prosecution could violate their religious freedoms .
the polygamist prophet : one step closer to a texas court .
wednesday , sept . 08 , 2010 .
the appearance was brief , perhaps two or three minutes , but the presence of warren jeffs in a salt lake city area courtroom this week revealed a man who has changed in the four years since his arrest .
the man who was once on the fbi's most wanted list looked thinner , his hair , now close - cropped , dusted with gray , and he wore a pair of frameless glasses that seemed to emphasize his most distinctive feature , his wide , compelling eyes .
jeffs has reportedly suffered from illness brought on by extended periods of prayer and fasting .
but the brief courtroom hearing with its mundane talk of calendars and hearings also brought the sometime "prophet" of a utah - based polygamist sect one step closer to a texas courtroom to face allegations of sexual assault and bigamy - perhaps law enforcement's best avenue to keep him behind bars .
jeffs and 11 members of his fundamentalist church of the latter day saints ( flds ) were charged in 2008 by texas authorities with a variety of felony charges , from bigamy to child abuse , following a raid on the group's yearning for zion ranch in tiny eldorado , texas .
seven of the men have been convicted and have received sentences ranging from 7 to 75 years ; another goes on trial this month .
jerry strickland , a spokesman for texas attorney general greg abbott told time : "whenever warren jeffs is brought to texas , we stand ready to try him on felony charges returned by a schleicher county grand jury . " .
( will texas have better luck with warren jeffs ? ) .
jeffs' defense team's efforts to fight extradition are a "big long shot , " according to clifford rosky , a criminal law professor at the university of utah .
"he is going to be extradited - it's a matter of weeks , not months , " rosky says .
on tuesday , jeffs refused to sign the waiver of extradition - a move his legal team had hinted would happen after utah's gov . gary herbert accepted the extradition request by texas gov . rick perry last month .
the wrangling over his extradition will continue at a nov . 15 hearing when it is likely jeffs' legal team will argue he should remain in utah until charges against him in that state are either dropped or reinstated .
( see a multi - media look at families excommunicated by warren jeffs . ) .
in august , the utah supreme court tossed out a 2008 conviction in state court that found jeffs was an accomplice to rape after he performed a marriage between elissa wall , 14 , and her then 19 - year - old first cousin , allen g . steed .
jeffs remains in utah prison so far , while state government is asking its high court to reconsider its ruling .
prosecutors , however , have been mum on whether they will retry jeffs .
"we don't need him here right now , " utah assistant attorney general craig barlow said , urging the court to move forward on the texas extradition .
texas prosecutors need only prove the target of their arrest warrant is the real warren jeffs and that their charges are based on some reasonable belief that a crime occurred .
during the raid on the flds ranch , texas rangers removed numerous boxes of records and computers .
later , the state assembled a detailed dna map of the 401 children removed by child protective services from the ranch , plus samples from some of their parents who agreed to testing to reclaim their children .
among the evidence was a 2006 photograph marked "anniversary" that shows jeffs kissing a 12 - year - old girl .
the photo , according to flds detractors depicts an abusive underage marriage , while supporters claim it is just a record of a symbolic kiss marking a spiritual marriage aimed at strengthening bonds between families .
but the photo is likely to be evidence in jeffs' texas trial , the sort of evidence that eluded utah prosecutors .
meanwhile , schleicher county sheriff david doran says his 15 - bed jail is ready for jeffs whenever he arrives in the small west texas town of eldorado .
the man who spent three months eluding the fbi in 2006 also could be housed in nearby san angelo , a city of some 88 , 000 residents compared to el dorado's 1 , 800 .
law enforcement continues to view him as flight risk .
tuesday's hearing was delayed as attorneys and prosecutors argued .
prosecutors wanted him in prison clothes and handcuffed , defense attorneys argued he should appear unshackled in civilian clothes .
the judge split the baby and jeffs appeared in a suit , a white shirt that looked a little large in the collar , and his hands cuffed as if in prayer .
as he appeared a dozen male members of the flds community in the courtroom audience stood and smiled at their former leader .
"he is holding up great .
he is doing just fine .
he is very appreciative of the utah supreme court's decision .
he is a prayerful man and he feels , and the people who support mr . jeffs believe , that their prayers were answered , " jeffs' attorney walter f . bugden told the salt lake tribune .
"he is a little thin , he is a little thin .
he could use some fattening up . " .
polygamous leaders arrested in canada , ordered to surrender passports .
two leaders of polygamous groups with ties to utah have been arrested in canada , charged with practicing polygamy .
one of the wives of former fundamentalist lds church leader winston blackmore confirmed his arrest wednesday .
" it 's for polygamy , " she said , declining to give her name but telling the deseret news she was one of blackmore 's wives .
she also said flds bishop jim oler was also arrested .
the criminal charges were filed tuesday in creston , british columbia .
in canada , polygamy is illegal .
the royal canadian mounted police said they began their investigation in 2005 and revisited it earlier this year after a special prosecutor recommended charges .
the prosecutor recommended polygamy and sexual exploitation charges but british columbia attorney general wally oppal opted to only pursue polygamy charges , noting that blackmore has 20 wives and oler has two .
" the defendants should raise any constitutional issues , " oppal said , in response to questions about polygamists ' religious freedoms claims .
oppal denied that the prosecution was political , despite the former attorney general for british columbia and several special prosecutors declining to pursue charges against anyone in the fundamentalist enclave of bountiful .
both blackmore and oler were to be released from rcmp custody late wednesday pending a future court appearance .
they were ordered by a judge to surrender their passports , check in with rcmp authorities , not leave british columbia and perform no " celestial marriages , " said rcmp sgt. tim shields .
a spokesman for the flds church did not immediately return a call seeking comment .
news of the charges stunned many .
" i 'm shocked .
i really am , " said mary batchelor , the director of the utah-based pro-polygamy group principle voices .
" i 'm amazed they are actually doing that . " .
batchelor said she had been in contact with some of blackmore 's wives , whom she said were understandably upset .
blackmore was a bishop in the utah-based flds church until he was excommunicated in 2002 .
the fundamentalists who live in bountiful , british columbia , split with some following blackmore and others remaining in the flds church led by warren jeffs .
oler was a bishop in bountiful , the flds enclave there .
the attorney general of british columbia has been probing the polygamous communities on allegations of sex abuse , human trafficking and forced marriages .
several special prosecutors were appointed to give opinions on prosecuting polygamy laws in canada .
in an e-mail to the deseret news in 2006 , blackmore acknowledged being the subject of a canadian police inquiry .
" since we are not hiding we are not hard to find , " he wrote .
" it is hard to think that canada , the home of free lovers and legalized same-sex marriages , not to mention legal wife-swapping clubs , could waste their time on people who live like we do . " .
the strange legal trip of polygamist warren jeffs .
saturday , june 12 , 2010 .
five years ago , warren jeffs was charged with sex crimes resulting from the polygamous marriages he arranged for his followers in the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints ( flds ) .
jeffs then began a circular journey through the jailhouses and courtrooms of the west .
this week , the self - styled prophet awoke to the promise of a change of scenery - but not a change of fortune .
an arizona judge dismissed the original charges against jeffs , the very charges that had catapulted him into national headlines .
but the dismissal has only cleared the way for texas authorities to get their hands on him to face even more serious charges .
"extradition proceedings against warren jeffs have commenced , " lauri saathoff , a spokesperson for texas attorney general greg abbott told time .
jeffs has already spent more time in an arizona county jail cell than he would have spent in prison if found guilty of the original charges : arranging and performing marriages between two underage girls and their older male relatives , thus being an accomplice to sexual misconduct with minors .
the prosecutor in the case said the two victims no longer wanted to pursue the charges , making a prosecution impractical .
jeffs' attorney , mike picarretta , hinted at "irregularities" and said the cases would have been dropped years ago had they involved someone less well - known than his client .
but he doesn't face imminent release .
arizona had put its charges on hold while jeffs was prosecuted in utah on similar charges .
in september 2007 a utah jury found him guilty of two counts of being an accomplice to rape by performing a marriage involving an underage girl .
he was given two five - years - to - life terms , moved to utah state prison and then back to arizona to await trial on the charges in that state .
now texas wants him .
state officials are not revealing when jeffs , 54 , will be moved , but mohave county sheriff tom sheahan is under arizona court orders to act speedily .
the sheriff says he hopes jeffs will be out of his jail by this week's end .
"he's been a problem inmate since we had him , " sheahan told the san angelo ( texas ) standard - times .
"mr . jeffs was a handful from day one with his self - inflicted hunger strikes . " .
jeffs served as president and prophet of the fundamentalist church of the jesus christ of the latter day saints after his father , rulon jeffs , died in 2002 .
in june 2005 , days after being indicted in arizona on the charges of being an accomplice to sexual conduct with a minor , jeffs fled the colorado city , arizona , area , home to a large flds community .
a warrant was issued for his arrest and he was placed on the fbi's 10 most wanted list .
fourteen months later , he was arrested outside las vegas , nevada , and began his journey from court to court and jail to jail .
jeffs' defenders claim he is a victim of religious persecution .
he has spent much of his time in jail talking about his faith , fasting and praying .
tall , slender , with a wide - eyed gaze that seems to compel allegiance among his flds followers , jeffs is a calm presence in court , but his life behind bars has been more tumultuous .
ill from fasting , his knees bleeding and sore from prolonged prayer sessions , he has been hospitalized and force - fed several times .
he has also been inconsistently penitent .
"i am one of the most wicked men on the face of the earth since the days of father adam , " jeffs can be heard saying on a tape recorded by authorities at the purgatory jail in st . george , utah .
still , jeffs' attorneys are pledging to fight extradition and also have an appeal of the utah case pending before the state supreme court .
they also may seek a new trial based on recently uncovered evidence - now under investigation by the utah attorney general's office - that some medical records in the trial may not have been original documents , but reconstructed ones .
jeffs' legal team says the utah case must be resolved before their client is moved to texas .
the ordeal also has been difficult for his alleged victims , says roger hoole , an attorney for elissa wall and susie barlow , former flds members and child brides .
"they have been reviled .
they are hated and they have been scapegoated" in the flds community , hoole told time .
the flds communities in northern arizona and southern utah have strong , deep roots to the region going back to the mid - 19th century .
many families bear the same name - evidence of generations of intermarriage - and former flds members say communal wealth is used by the leadership to maintain power and punish .
witnesses have refused to testify in the cases against jeffs .
texas prosecutors have sidestepped that problem by using genetic evidence and extensive church documents seized during an april , 2008 raid at the flds yearning for zion ranch in west texas .
jeffs was indicted in july , 2008 , by a schleicher county grand jury in eldorado , texas , home to the yfz ranch .
the state authorities removed more than 400 children from the ranch , plus boxes of evidence , some of which purport to show jeffs kissing child brides .
he is facing charges of aggravated sexual assault , sexual assault and bigamy charges which could result in at least one life sentence .
if extradited , he will join 12 other flds defendants charged with similar offenses .
in a steady march beginning last october , five flds members have been convicted of felonies and received sentences ranging from seven to 75 years .
a sixth trial is just getting under way in the small eldorado courthouse and six more men await trail - seven if jeffs finds himself in a west texas jail .
2 polygamous leaders arrested in canada .
the leader of a polygamous communtity in western canada who has admitted having numerous wives and dozens of children was arrested wednesday and charged with practicing polygamy , according to court documents and local officials .
winston blackmore , long known as the bishop of bountiful , runs an independent sect of about 400 in bountiful , british columbia .
blackmore once ran the canadian arm of the utah-based fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints , but was ejected from the sect in 2003 by its leader , warren jeffs .
last june , british columbia attorney general wally oppal appointed a special prosecutor to look into allegations of criminal abuse at bountiful , despite two earlier legal opinions that said it would be difficult to proceed with criminal charges for polygamy itself .
blackmore openly admits to having numerous wives and dozens of children but has said the community abhors sexual abuse of children .
according to a court document filed in nearby creston , winston blackmore is facing a charge of practicing polygamy .
officials at the mormon hills school in the community , where blackmore is the superintendent , said he was arrested wednesday .
warren jeffs arraigned in texas on sex charges .
updated 12 / 2 / 2010 1 : 31 am .
polygamist sect leader warren jeffs was quietly extradited from utah to texas , where he was arraigned wednesday to face trial on bigamy and sexual assault charges .
jeffs , who was indicted more than two years ago , appeared during a brief hearing in san angelo wearing glasses , orange jail pants and a gray sweat shirt , texas attorney general's office spokesman jerry strickland said .
the 54 - year - old jeffs was not asked to enter a plea and spoke only to tell he judge that he needed more time to find a lawyer , strickland said .
texas authorities have charged the ecclesiastical head of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saints with felony bigamy , aggravated sexual assault and assault .
prosecutors plan to try the charges separately , with the first trial scheduled to begin jan . 24 .
the charges stem from the 2008 raid of the yearning for zion ranch in eldorado , where authorities seized more than 400 children and placed them in state custody on suspicion that the girls were being sexually abused and the boys were being raised to be sexual predators .
most of the children were eventually returned to their families , but several men in the sect who see jeffs as their spiritual leader were charged with child sexual assault and abuse .
on wednesday , jeffs was in the same courtroom where several members of his church were convicted .
he was brought to texas a day earlier from utah , where he was convicted in a case stemming from the marriage of an underage girl to her cousin .
that conviction was overturned in 2007 .
a phone message left with jeffs' attorneys in utah was not returned wednesday .
willie jessop , a spokesman for the church , declined immediate comment .
jeffs is being held without bond at a jail outside san angelo in west texas .
during the hearing , district judge barbara walther read jeffs the indictment and asked if he understood the charges .
he declined to sign a scheduling order that laid out the dates of his court appearances , strickland said .
strickland called the jail choice an issue of "security . " .
he did not elaborate , but noted that prosecutors were not approaching the case differently because of jeffs' high profile .
"when you have sexual assault of a child , it doesn't matter who you are , " strickland said .
utah department of corrections spokesman steve gehrke said wednesday that prison officials transported jeffs to the salt lake city airport tuesday and turned him over to texas law enforcement .
a texas ranger and an officer from the attorney general's office went to utah to pick up jeffs and flew with him back to texas , strickland said .
jeffs' defense attorneys in utah had opposed the extradition , arguing that sending jeffs to texas before a long - running criminal case in utah was resolved would deny him the right to a speedy trial .
but the utah supreme court ruled nov . 23 that it would not block the transfer .
jeffs had been held at the utah state prison since his arrest , and eventual conviction , on two charges of rape as an accomplice for his role in the 2001 marriage of an underage follower - then 14 - to her 19 - year - old cousin .
in july , the utah supreme overturned the 2007 convictions .
prosecutors there have yet to decide whether they'll retry jeffs .
6 . 1 - magnitude quake strikes indonesia's aceh province in region hit by 2004 tsunami .
july 03 , 2013 6 : 22am .
an earthquake killed six children and left 14 others trapped when a mosque collapsed during a koran reading session in indonesia's aceh province , bringing the confirmed death toll from the disaster to 11 .
the strong 6 . 1 - magnitude quake left hundreds more injured as it rocked a region that was devastated by the quake - triggered tsunami of 2004 .
the earthquake reduced houses in parts of aceh to rubble , set off several landslides and badly damaged roads .
rescuers were struggling to find the children still trapped after the mosque collapse in blang mancung village , central aceh district .
"our search and rescue teams are struggling to evacuate an estimated 14 children still trapped under the rubble , " said subhan sahara , the head of the local disaster management agency .
"i hope they can be found alive but the chances are very slim , " he added , explaining they were reading the koran together when the quake struck .
the quake , which hit at a shallow depth of just 10 kilometres , injured more than 200 people and damaged more than 300 houses in aceh , said national disaster agency spokesman sutopo purwo nugroho .
as police and military personnel struggled to reach affected areas late tuesday , there were two aftershocks of more than 5 . 0 magnitude .
in a village in bener meriah district , one man was killed when a landslide engulfed a coffee plantation , said disaster agency official fauzi .
"a man was working at a coffee plantation with his wife when a landslide caused by the quake struck .
his body was found under a pile of earth soon afterwards , " he said , adding that his wife and another woman were missing at the site .
another four people died in hospitals in the district from injuries sustained in the quake , he said .
one of the fatalities was a child who died when a wall collapsed , said ema suryani , a doctor at a health clinic in lampahan city in the district .
"we have received around 50 people with injuries sustained when the walls of their houses collapsed , " added the doctor .
"there are around 30 people seriously injured , some with head injuries .
the rest have only light injuries like minor cuts and grazes . " .
injured people had been transported from several affected villages in two trucks , she said .
people ran outside in banda aceh as the quake shook houses , and in medan city to the south of the province on sumatra island .
"the quake was felt strongly for around 15 seconds , from bener meriah to banda aceh .
people panicked and rushed out of their homes , " said national disaster agency spokesman nugroho .
aceh , on the northern tip of sumatra , is regularly hit by quakes .
in 2004 a massive tremor sparked a tsunami that killed 170 , 000 people in the province and tens of thousands more in countries around the indian ocean .
in april last year an 8 . 6 - magnitude quake struck 431 kilometres off banda aceh , prompting an indian ocean - wide tsunami alert .
five people died and seven were injured in aceh in the quake and following aftershocks .
in september 2009 a major earthquake near padang city on sumatra killed more than 1000 people .
indonesia sits on the pacific "ring of fire" where tectonic plates collide , causing frequent seismic and volcanic activity .
6 . 1 - magnitude quake strikes indonesia's aceh : usgs .
a powerful 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake struck the indonesian province of aceh with no tsunami warning issued .
afp , tuesday 2 jul 2013 .
a strong 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake struck the northwestern indonesian province of aceh on tuesday , the us geological survey said , sending people running into the streets in panic .
there were no immediate reports of damage after the quake struck inland at a depth of just 10 kilometres ( 6 . 2 miles ) , 55 kilometres south of bireun and 72 kilometres southeast of reuleuet , said the usgs .
people ran out of buildings in panic in the provincial capital banda aceh as the quake shook houses for around one minute , an afp journalist at the scene said .
but the usgs estimated there was a low likelihood of casualties or damage .
a massive quake struck off aceh in 2004 , sparking a tsunami that killed 170 , 000 people in the province on sumatra and tens of thousands more in countries around the indian ocean .
indonesia sits on the pacific "ring of fire" where continental plates collide , causing frequent seismic and volcanic activity .
earthquake of magnitude 6 . 1 strikes indonesia's aceh province killing one .
on july 02 2013 7 : 41 am .
a magnitude - 6 . 1 earthquake struck indonesia's aceh province on tuesday at 07 : 37 a . m . utc ( 3 : 37 a . m . edt ) , killing at least one and leaving two others missing , the associated press reported .
the epicenter of the quake , which originated six miles beneath the surface , was located 34 miles west of the town of bireun , near the western coast of sumatra island , according to the u . s . geological survey .
no tsunami warnings were issued following the quake , which injured dozens and damaged several houses in takengon , the capital of central aceh district , ap reported .
people ran out of their homes when the quake hit , ap reported , citing residents of bukit sama village in central aceh district , where the quake has led to a power outage .
"i see many houses were damaged and their roofs fell onto some people , " a bukit sama village resident told ap .
"many people were injured but it is difficult to evacuate them due to traffic jams . " .
indonesia is prone to seismic activity , due to its location on the pacific basin's "ring of fire , " a 25 , 000 - mile - long stretch where earthquakes are common , although only a small percentage are strong enough to be felt .
the 2004 tsunami that killed about 230 , 000 people across asia was triggered by a massive 9 . 1 - magnitude quake off aceh .
indonesia , july 2 , 2013 .
updated : july 2 , 2013 15 : 01 ist .
strong earthquake hits indonesia's aceh province .
a strong earthquake struck off indonesia's aceh province on tuesday , damaging houses and injuring at least five people .
the u . s . geological survey said the magnitude 6 . 1 quake struck at a depth of 10 kilometers ( 6 miles ) and its epicenter was located 55 kilometers ( 34 miles ) west of the town of bireun on the western tip of sumatra island .
at least five people were reportedly injured and 10 houses were damaged in takengon , the capital of central aceh district , said sutopo purwo nugroho of the national disaster mitigation agency .
"i see many houses were damages and their roofs fell onto some people , " said bensu elianita , a 22 year - old resident in bukit sama village in central aceh district .
"many people were injured but it is difficult to evacuate them due to traffic jams . " .
she said many people in the village ran out from their houses in panic and screamed for help .
at least two houses were totally flattened , she said , adding that the quake also caused blackout in the village .
indonesia is prone to seismic upheaval due to its location on the pacific ring of fire , an arc of volcanoes and fault lines encircling the pacific ocean .
in 2004 , a huge earthquake off aceh triggered a tsunami that killed 230 , 000 people across asia .
magnitude - 6 . 1 quake hits indonesia ; 1 dead .
tuesday , july 2 , 2013 .
a strong earthquake struck indonesia's aceh province on tuesday , killing at least one person and leaving two others missing .
many houses were damaged and dozens of villagers were injured .
the magnitude - 6 . 1 quake struck at a depth of just 10 kilometers ( six miles ) and its epicenter was located 55 kilometers ( 34 miles ) west of the town of bireun on the western tip of sumatra island , the us geological survey said .
the worst - hit area was the district of bener meriah , where the quake caused a landslide that killed a man and left his wife and a young boy missing , said fauzi , an official of the local disaster agency .
"dozens of people were injured and are being treated at three hospitals , " said fauzi , who like many indonesians uses a single name .
he said at least 22 houses were badly damaged in the district .
at least five people were reportedly injured and 10 houses were damaged in takengon , the capital of central aceh district , said sutopo purwo nugroho of the national disaster mitigation agency .
"i see many houses were damaged and their roofs fell onto some people , " said bensu elianita , a 22 - year - old resident in bukit sama village in central aceh district .
"many people were injured , but it is difficult to evacuate them due to traffic jams . " .
she said people in the village ran out from their houses in panic and screamed for help .
at least two homes were totally flattened , she said , adding that the quake also caused a blackout in the village .
the quake also caused panic among officials attending a meeting of the asia pacific economic cooperation in medan , the capital of neighboring north sumatra province .
the officials were escorted from the second - floor meeting room by security officers .
indonesia is prone to seismic upheaval due to its location on the pacific ring of fire , an arc of volcanoes and fault lines encircling the pacific ocean .
in 2004 , a huge earthquake off aceh triggered a tsunami that killed 230 , 000 people across asia .
indonesia 's west papua province was hit by a magnitude 6.1 earthquake today , the latest powerful tremor to shake the region where five people were killed and hundreds injured at the weekend when buildings were destroyed .
the quake struck off the coast at 7:48 a.m. local time , 75 kilometers ( 50 miles ) west of the region 's main city of manokwari , the u.s. geological survey said in an alert .
there were no immediate reports of damage or casualties and no tsunami alert was issued .
a united nations assessment team was dispatched to the province after two quakes , measuring 7.6 and 7.4 , struck west of manokwari jan. 4 .
at least five people were killed , 250 others injured and more than 800 homes destroyed by those temblors , according to the un .
about 14,000 people fled their homes at the weekend after a local tsunami warning was issued , the un said on its web site .
the indonesian government has transported relief supplies , including food , medicine , tarpaulins , generators and water purification equipment to the affected areas .
two three-story hotels in manokwari , a city of 160,000 people , collapsed in the jan. 4 quakes and buildings were also damaged in the town of sorong , according to the world health organization .
manokwari 's rendai airport was also temporarily closed on security and safety concerns , the who said .
indonesia lies in a zone where the indo-australian , eurasian , philippine and pacific plates meet and occasionally shift , causing earthquakes and sometimes generating tsunamis .
there have been hundreds of earthquakes in indonesia since a 9.1 temblor in 2004 caused a tsunami that swept across the indian ocean , devastating coastal communities and leaving more than 220,000 people dead in indonesia , sri lanka , india , thailand and other countries .
five dead , dozens injured in indonesia quake .
tuesday , july 2nd , 2013 .
a powerful earthquake in indonesia's aceh province flattened buildings and sparked landslides tuesday , killing at least five people and injuring dozens in a region devastated by the quake - triggered tsunami of 2004 .
the 6 . 1 - magnitude quake struck inland at a depth of just 10 kilometers in the mountainous bener meriah district in the heart of aceh , the us geological survey said .
it destroyed houses in the district , some 320 kilometers from the provincial capital banda aceh , and triggered several landslides .
police and troops were deployed to lead rescue efforts , as pictures showed the walls of houses reduced to rubble and roads badly damaged and blocked by landslips .
five people had so far been confirmed dead in the quake , fauzi , an official from the local disaster agency , told afp late tuesday .
in suka makmur village a landslide engulfed a coffee plantation , killing one man , said the official who uses one name .
"a man was working at a coffee plantation with his wife when a landslide caused by the quake struck , " he said .
"his body was found under a pile of earth soon afterwards , " he said , adding that his wife and another woman were missing at the site .
four other people died in hospitals in the district from injuries sustained in the quake , he said .
one of the fatalities was a child who died when a wall collapsed , ema suryani , a doctor at a health clinic in lampahan city in the district , told afp .
"we have received around 50 people with injuries sustained when the walls of their houses collapsed , " added the doctor .
"there are around 30 people seriously injured , some with head injuries .
the rest have only light injuries like minor cuts and grazes . " .
injured people had been transported from several affected villages in two trucks , she said .
around 40 houses were damaged by the quake , including some which were flattened , said disaster agency official fauzi .
most of the damaged houses were in the wih pesam area of the district , he added .
people ran outside in panic in banda aceh as the quake shook houses , and in medan city to the south of the province on sumatra island .
"the quake was felt strongly for around 15 seconds , from bener meriah to banda aceh .
people panicked and rushed out of their homes , " national disaster agency spokesman sutopo purwo nugroho said .
aceh , on the northern tip of sumatra , is regularly hit by quakes .
in 2004 a massive tremor sparked a tsunami that killed 170 , 000 people in the province and tens of thousands more in countries around the indian ocean .
in april last year an 8 . 6 - magnitude quake struck 431 kilometres off banda aceh , prompting an indian ocean - wide tsunami alert .
five people died and seven were injured in aceh in the quake and following aftershocks .
in september 2009 a major earthquake near padang city on sumatra killed more than 1 , 000 people .
indonesia sits on the pacific "ring of fire" where tectonic plates collide , causing frequent seismic and volcanic activity .
a strong earthquake rattled indonesia 's west papua province wednesday just days after a powerful quake levelled buildings and killed one person , the united states geological survey said .
the 6.1-magnitude quake was the latest in a series of dozens of powerful tremors to have hit the region since 7.6 and 7.5 magnitude quakes that struck off the provincial capital manokwari on sunday .
wednesday 's shallow quake hit at 7 : 48 am ( 2248 gmt tuesday ) just off the coast , some 75 kilometres ( 50 miles ) west of manokwari .
officials had been put on alert to deal with more devastation to the area -- where thousands of people have been living in tents since sunday 's quakes -- but no damage or injuries had been reported , provincial disaster chief rahimin kacong was quoted by afp as saying .
the quake was accompanied by smaller quakes with a magnitude over 5.0 off kupang in east nusa tenggara province and ternate in north maluku province , indonesia 's seismological agency said .
around 14,000 people flooded into camps on high ground in the aftermath of sunday 's quakes fearing deadly waves after authorities issued and then withdrew a tsunami alert .
many refugees have returned home but some remain too fearful to go back kacong said .
" we already told people to return to their houses following the meteorological office report saying that the frequency of aftershocks has reduced , " he said .
hundreds of government and private buildings have been damaged by the sunday quakes , as well as seven bridges , two of which have collapsed .
the tremors have re-awakened bitter memories of similar deadly quakes that hit manokwari in 2002 , as well as the asian tsunami that killed 168,000 people in indonesia 's aceh province and nias island in 2004 .
6 . 1 - magnitude quake strikes indonesia's aceh province .
tue jul 2 , 2013 1 : 28pm gmt .
a powerful 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake strikes the northern indonesian province of aceh , killing at least three people and injuring dozens more across the affected region .
according to the us geological survey , the quake hit at a depth of 10 kilometers ( 6 miles ) in the northern province of aceh .
the epicenter was situated 55 kilometers ( 34 miles ) west of the town of bireun on the western tip of sumatra island .
eyewitnesses and local residents say many homes and properties have collapsed or been damaged .
"i see many houses were damaged and their roofs fell onto some people , " said bensu elianita , a 22 year - old resident in bukit sama village in central aceh district , adding , "many people were injured but it is difficult to evacuate them due to traffic jams . " .
on april 20 , a 6 . 4 - magnitude earthquake jolted indonesia's maluku , but caused no casualties or material damage .
on april 6 , an earthquake measuring 7 . 2 on the richter scale struck eastern indonesia's mountainous west papua province .
indonesia is vulnerable to earthquakes since it is located on the pacific ring of fire , a region known for its seismic and volcanic activity caused by friction between shifting tectonic plates .
last year , a 6 . 4 - magnitude quake rocked the west coast of sumatra island , killing at least one person .
an 8 . 7 - magnitude earthquake also hit off the city of banda aceh in sumatra island in may 2012 , triggering regional tsunami alerts .
a strong quake off the shores of indonesia triggered a tsunami that killed 230 , 000 people in 13 countries around the indian ocean in 2004 .
thousands of frightened residents flooded makeshift refugee camps in indonesia 's west papua province today after two powerful earthquakes flattened buildings and killed at least one person .
residents camped out in yards and streets outside their homes , and there were some 14,000 refugees across the province , many of whom had fled to higher ground , officials said .
" for the time being there are 14,000 refugees , " governor abraham atururi said , adding that 17 camps had been set up for the displaced in the provincial capital manokwari .
as aid started to arrive , hundreds of aftershocks continued to rattle the coastal city which was hit by the 7.6 and 7.5 magnitude quakes early on sunday , cutting power and prompting a brief tsunami warning .
atururi said a 10-year-old girl was killed and at least 40 people were injured in the earthquakes , which rekindled bitter memories of similar deadly quakes that hit the town in 2002 .
hundreds of government and private buildings were damaged in the quake , as well as seven bridges , two of which collapsed , he said .
four central government ministers arrived by plane bringing 1.5 billion rupiah ( $ a195,900 ) in aid and to survey the damage , officials said .
two tonnes of medicine was also flown in by the health ministry to manokwari 's airport .
in manokwari , many residents were camping outside their homes , but thousands from low-lying areas refused to leave camps on higher ground out of fear of a tsunami .
" i 'm half-dead in my tent .
i want to go home but i 'm scared of a tsunami , " said fisherman 's wife mapahai , 35 , who fled with her husband and six children .
" two of my children are sick , i 'm also sick .
we have n't received any medicine yet , " she said .
indonesia 's meteorology and geophysics agency ( bmg ) said papua had been hit by 842 aftershocks over a period of 29 hours after the first quake , including 54 aftershocks stronger than five on the richter scale .
" it keeps on shaking , " papua bmg spokesman mujahidin said .
some 168,000 people were killed in indonesia 's aceh province and nias island by the 2004 asian tsunami , making it the worst hit country .
indonesia earthquake : 24 dead and over 200 injured as 6 . 1 magnitude quake hits aceh province .
wednesday 03 july 2013 .
soldiers and police are leading rescue operations in indonesia after a 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake hit aceh province leaving 24 dead and over 200 injured .
the quake struck yesterday afternoon at a depth of just six miles and was centred on the far western tip of sumatra island in aceh province .
twelve people were killed and 70 others were injured by a landslide or collapsing buildings in bener meriah district , said sutopo purwo nugroho of the national disaster mitigation agency .
in neighbouring central aceh district , 10 people were killed , 140 were injured and about 1 , 500 houses and buildings were damaged , nugroho said .
the quake also triggered landslides and caused hundreds of people to be evacuated to 10 temporary shelters .
another two people are also reported to have been killed , although it has not been stated where .
nugroho told agence - france presse : "we have recorded 24 people dead and 249 people injured" , adding that more than 300 buildings have been damaged in the quake .
rescuers and other assistance teams have arrived in bener meriah , while the air force have dispatched a helicopter and a cn - 235 aircraft to the region , nugroho said .
"we are now concentrating on searching for people who may be trapped under the rubble , " said rusli m . saleh , the deputy district chief of bener meriah .
he said at least 25 of the injured in his district were hospitalised in intensive care .
as the quake hit , villagers in the area ran out of their homes in panic and screamed for help .
"i see many houses were damaged and their roofs fell onto some people , " bensu elianita , a 22 - year - old resident of bukit sama village in central aceh district , said shortly after the quake hit .
"many people were injured , but it is difficult to evacuate them due to traffic jams . " .
the quake also caused concern among officials attending a meeting of the asia pacific economic cooperation forum in medan , the capital of neighboring north sumatra province .
they were escorted from the second - floor meeting room by security officers .
indonesia is prone to seismic upheaval due to its location on the pacific ring of fire , an arc of volcanoes and fault lines encircling the pacific ocean .
in 2004 , a magnitude - 9 . 1 earthquake off aceh triggered a tsunami that killed 230 , 000 people in 14 countries .
a series of powerful earthquakes has shaken indonesia 's remote eastern province of papua , briefly triggering fears of a tsunami , officials have said .
a young girl was killed and dozens of others were seriously injured in the quakes , which also sent small tsunamis into japan 's southeastern coast .
panicked residents fled to higher ground as the first earthquake measuring 7.6 magnitude struck on sunday about 135 kilometers from the main city of manokwari , according to the us geological survey .
power supplies were cut and commercial flights were cancelled after cracks appeared on the runway of the city 's airport .
hengky tewu , a hospital director , said a 10-year-old girl was killed at home when a wall collapsed and crushed her head .
at least 50 people were hospitalised for broken bones and head wounds while 300 others were given outpatient treatment , henri sembiring a local health official , said .
one of the tremors with a 7.3 magnitude was felt 1,300 kilometers away in northern australia , but no damage was reported .
indonesia 's national disaster coordination agency said about 135 homes and other buildings were badly damaged or toppled in the quakes .
residents in manokwari - a jumble of low-lying brick and cement structures home to 167,000 people - remained wary of aftershocks , with many staying outdoors in case fresh tremors caused more buildings to collapse .
the indonesian health ministry and world vision indonesia , a relief agency , have said they will be sending in aid teams and emergency kits including canned food , blankets and basic medical supplies .
papua , located about 2,955 kilometers east of the country 's capital , jakarta , is among the nation 's least developed areas .
in december 2004 , a massive undersea quake off the western indonesian province of aceh triggered a giant tsunami that left at least 230,000 people dead and missing in a dozen countries facing the indian ocean .
indonesia straddles a chain of fault lines and volcanoes known as the pacific " ring of fire " and is prone to seismic activity .
dozens injured , child dead as 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake hits indonesia's aceh .
updated : july 02 , 2013 15 : 50 ist .
a 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake which hit the indonesian province of aceh on tuesday killed a child , injured dozens and destroyed buildings , sparking panic in a region devastated by the quake - triggered tsunami of 2004 .
the quake struck inland at 0737 gmt at a depth of just 10 kilometres ( 6 . 2 miles ) in the mountainous bener meriah district in the heart of aceh , the us geological survey said .
houses collapsed in the district , some 320 kilometres ( 200 miles ) from the provincial capital banda aceh .
"a child died when a wall collapsed , " ema suryani , a doctor at a health clinic in lampahan city , told afp .
"we have received around 50 people with injuries suffered when the walls of their houses collapsed , " added the doctor .
"there are around 30 people seriously injured , some with head injuries .
the rest have only light injuries like minor cuts and grazes . " .
injured people had been transported from several affected villages in two trucks , she said .
people ran outside in panic in banda aceh as the quake shook houses , and in medan city to the south of aceh province on sumatra island .
"the quake was felt strongly for around 15 seconds , from bener meriah to banda aceh .
people panicked and rushed out of their homes , " national disaster agency spokesman sutopo purwo nugroho said .
aceh , on the northern tip of sumatra , is regularly hit by quakes .
in 2004 a massive tremor sparked a tsunami that killed 170 , 000 people in the province and tens of thousands more in countries around the indian ocean .
in april last year an 8 . 6 - magnitude quake struck 431 kilometres off banda aceh , prompting an indian ocean - wide tsunami alert .
five people died and seven were injured in aceh in the quake and following aftershocks .
in september 2009 , a major earthquake near padang city on sumatra killed more than 1 , 000 people .
indonesia sits on the pacific "ring of fire" where tectonic plates collide , causing frequent seismic and volcanic activity .
the powerful quakes in papua in easternmost of indonesia on sunday have led over 14,000 people taking shelters in tents , destroyed hundreds of buildings , killed one person and injured dozens others , local disaster management agency said on monday .
head of the agency captain manrosan , who goes with a single name like many indonesian , told xinhua by phone from manokwari of papua 's main city that eight people had suffered from serious injury and 261 other got minor injury .
manrosan said that the 7.7 magnitude quake damaged 42 government office buildings , 2 roads , 14 hotels , over 1,600 houses , 40 religious building including churches and mosques , 8 bridges , and 4 school buildings .
" up to the midday monday , the latest data of the fatality is only one person , " he said , ruling out speculation about the rumor of several deaths .
the manokwari hospital said that most of those seriously wounded now were treated at an emergency unit at the hospital .
" most of them have broken bones , caused by the smashed of the debris of the buildings , " doctor sokal pirg of the unit told xinhua by phone from the hospital .
evacuees still lived in tents and relatives ' houses which were at higher grounds and far from sea for fear of possible tsunami , said manrosan .
the quake has totally stop electricity supply at the city , but now some of them have resumed , said manrosan .
the quake , with epicenter was about 85 miles ( 135 kilometers ) from manokwari and occurred at a depth of 22 miles ( 35 kilometers ) , is followed by tremors , triggering fears among the displaced persons to return homes .
" we are still scared of further strong quakes , " said nora nursita , a resident at manokwari , over phone .
aids for the victims have been delivered from the local administration and jakarta , said manrosan .
up to monday , tremors keep shaking papua , particularly manokwari city which is home by over 170,000 people .
indonesian have recently launched an early tsunami warning system across the country to prevent a repeat of the 2004 's massive death caused by tsunami .
the catastrophe four years ago devastated indian ocean community and killed more than 230,000 people , over 170,000 of them in aceh at northern tip of sumatra island of indonesia .
indonesia , with over 230 million population and 17,000 islands , sits at a vulnerable zone so called " the pacific ring of fire " where two continental plates , stretching from the western hemisphere through japan and southeast asia , meet that cause frequent volcanic movements .
dozens injured as 6 . 1 - magnitude quake hits indonesia's aceh .
tue jul 02 2013 , 14 : 58 hrs .
a strong 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake struck indonesia's northwestern province of aceh today , causing buildings to collapse and injuring at least 50 people .
the quake hit inland at 0737 gmt at a depth of just 10 kilometres , 55 kilometres south of bireun and 72 kilometres southeast of reuleuet , the us geological survey said .
"we have received around 50 people with injuries suffered when the walls of their houses collapsed , " ema suryani , a doctor at a health clinic in lampahan city , bener meriah district , told afp .
"the injuries vary from open wounds to broken bones . " .
injured people had been transported from several affected villages in two trucks , she said .
people also ran out of buildings in panic in the provincial capital banda aceh as the quake shook houses for around one minute , an afp journalist at the scene said .
a massive quake struck off aceh in 2004 , sparking a tsunami that killed 170 , 000 people in the province on sumatra and tens of thousands more in countries around the indian ocean .
indonesia sits on the pacific "ring of fire" where continental plates collide , causing frequent seismic and volcanic activity .
a series of powerful earthquakes rocked manokwari , the capital of west papua , on sunday , killing four people , injuring dozens and destroying hundreds of buildings .
one 7.3-magnitude tremor was felt as far away as australia and sent small tsunamis into japan 's southeastern coast , the associated press reported .
the first quake , magnitude 7.6 , struck at 4:43 a.m. local time about 135 kilometers from manokwari at a depth of 35 kilometers , the u.s. geological survey said .
dozens of aftershocks followed .
at least four people died in papua , where the runway of the airport nearest the epicenter was split by the force , president susilo bambang yudhoyono told reporters .
" i 've instructed emergency steps be taken to help our brothers and to restore power and other vital utilities , " yudhoyono said .
among the dead was a 10-year-old girl , identified as yolanda mandofi , whose head was crushed , said local hospital director hengky tewu .
" our ambulances are picking up two more , " he said .
another 19 patients at the hospital were treated for broken bones , cuts , crush wounds and other injuries .
papua police chief maj. gen. bagus ekodanto said he had received reports that a hotel and a rice warehouse had been " destroyed " , but he did not know if anyone had been killed in the incidences .
a search for victims was under way .
several stories of the mutiara hotel in the main city manokwari collapsed , said ina , a nurse at a navy hospital , adding that she had already treated 20 quake victims .
the quakes also reportedly damaged the kalidingin hotel .
electricity was cut off to the coastal city of population 167,000 , where people fled their homes in the dark fearing a tsunami , said hasim rumatiga , a local health official .
the quakes forced thousands of people to take refuge , including in military fields in the city , said manokwari military commander col. inf. irham waroiham .
about 1,000 residents had taken shelter in a military field , 500 in a navy field , 500 in the yard of the manokwari regent office and 7,000 others in masni district , which lies just outside of manokwari city .
the meteorology and geophysics agency had issued a tsunami alert , but it was revoked within an hour after it was determined the epicenter of the main quake had been within the mainland .
quakes centered well within the mainland do not pose the threat of a tsunami to indonesia , but can still spread large waves to neighboring countries , such as japan .
japan 's meteorological agency said tsunamis 10 to 40 centimeters in height swept into towns along the coast .
the quakes were also felt in sorong regency .
the regency police spokesman snr. comr. agus rianto told the jakarta post the quakes had damaged 18 houses , injuring 11 residents .
the latest quakes in manokwari occurred on oct. 10 , 2002 , the largest recorded at magnitude 7.6 , killing three people .
another strong quake hit in 1996 , triggering enormous waves that hammered into the north coastal area of papua , as well as sorong , biak and manokwari .
3 july 2013 last updated at 13 : 38 gmt .
indonesia aceh rescue operation after deadly earthquake .
rescue operations are under way after a 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake hit indonesia's aceh province , flattening houses and causing landslides .
officials say at least 24 people were killed and more than 200 injured by the quake , which struck the western tip of sumatra island on tuesday .
one report said six children were killed and 14 trapped under debris when a mosque collapsed in central aceh .
indonesia is located on one of the most seismically active regions on earth .
"we have recorded 24 people dead and 249 people injured , " disaster agency spokesman sutopo purwo nugroho told agence - france presse ( afp ) news agency .
he added that more than 300 buildings have been damaged in the quake .
power cut .
soldiers and police have been deployed in rescue operations , but have struggled to access some areas where roads were blocked by landslides , officials said .
the indonesian air force deployed a helicopter and a plane as part of the rescue efforts .
officials say that the quake was felt for around 15 seconds , from banda aceh , the regional capital , to bener meriah , one of the worst - hit areas .
in bener meriah , about 300 people slept outdoors on tuesday night as the area was hit by strong aftershocks and people were afraid to return to their homes , a local official told afp .
"we have a power outage now and communications are unreliable , " he added .
in 2004 , a magnitude 9 . 1 quake off indonesia triggered a tsunami that killed some 230 , 000 people around the indian ocean .
indonesia is prone to earthquakes due to its location on the pacific ring of fire , an arc of volcanoes and fault lines encircling the pacific basin .
a series of earthquakes killed a 10-year-old girl and injured dozens sunday in remote eastern indonesia and briefly triggered fears of another tsunami in a country still recovering from such a disaster in 2004 .
one of the quakes -- a 7.3-magnitude tremor -- was felt as far away as australia and sent small tsunamis into japan 's southeastern coast .
residents near the epicenter in papua province rushed from their homes in search of higher ground shortly after the first 7.6-magnitude quake struck , afraid that huge waves might wash over the island .
the epicenter was about 85 miles from papua 's main city of manokwari and occurred at a depth of 22 miles , the u.s. geological survey said .
it was followed by dozens of aftershocks .
july 2 , 2013 07 : 44 .
powerful earthquake injures dozens in indonesia's aceh province .
at least 50 reported injured and buildings destroyed after a 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake strikes sumatra's aceh province .
a powerful 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake hit indonesia's northwestern aceh province on the island of sumatra early tuesday .
dozens have been reported injured .
the epicenter of the quake was roughly 55 kilometers from the town of bireuen , a regency of the larger aceh province , according to data from the us geological survey .
it took place at 7 : 37 am local time .
although it's unknown how many were injured , sky news estimates"at least 50 people , " and numerous buildings have collapsed as an effect of the powerful tremor .
the quake appears to have shaken the provincial capital of banda aceh , which is located at the northern tip of the sumatran land mass .
more from globalpost : aceh's bloodstained elections .
"i see many houses were damaged and their roofs fell onto some people , " central aceh district resident bensu elianita told the associated press .
"many people were injured but it is difficult to evacuate them due to traffic jams . " .
"we have received around 50 people with injuries suffered when the walls of their houses collapsed , " said doctor ema suryani to afp , speaking from lampahan city in aceh's bener meriah district .
aceh was hit extremely hard by the massive boxing day earthquake and tsunami in 2004 , killing 170 , 000 people in sumatra alone - with 35 , 000 bodies never recovered .
the rebuilding process continues to this day from the enormous natural disaster .
here's a slideshow of images of the northern sumatra quake on tuesday .
powerful 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake injures dozens in indonesia's aceh province .
tue , 02 jul 2013 12 : 28 cdt .
a powerful 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake hit indonesia's northwestern aceh province , on the island of sumatra .
dozens have been reported injured .
the epicenter of the quake was roughly 55 kilometers from the town of bireuen , a regency of the larger aceh province , and took place at 7 : 37 am local time according to data from the us geological survey .
although it's unknown how many were injured , sky news estimates"at least 50 people , " and numerous buildings have collapsed as an effect of the powerful tremblor .
the quake appears to have shaken the provincial capital of banda aceh , which is located at the northern tip of the sumatran land mass .
"i see many houses were damaged and their roofs fell onto some people , " said central aceh district resident bensu elianita to the associated press .
"many people were injured but it is difficult to evacuate them due to traffic jams . " .
"we have received around 50 people with injuries suffered when the walls of their houses collapsed , " said doctor ema suryani to afp , speaking from lampahan city in aceh's bener meriah district .
aceh was hit extremely hard by the massive "boxing day" earthquake and tsunami in 2004 , killing 170 , 000 people in sumatra alone - with 35 , 000 bodies never recovered .
the rebuilding process continues to this day from the enormous natural disaster .
dozens injured as 6 . 1 - magnitude quake hits indonesia's aceh .
published on jul 02 , 2013 4 : 22 pm .
a 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake which hit the indonesian province of aceh on tuesday killed at least one person , injured dozens and destroyed buildings , sparking panic in a region devastated by the quake - triggered tsunami of 2004 .
the quake hit inland at a depth of just 10km , 55km south of bireun and 72 km southeast of reuleuet , the us geological survey said .
houses collapsed in the district , some 320km from the provincial capital banda aceh .
"a child died when a wall collapsed , " said ema suryani , a doctor at a health clinic in lampahan city , bener meriah district .
4 - plus earthquake recorded near healdsburg .
at a richter magnitude of 4 . 6 , this one should have awakened sleepers .
march 14 , 2013 at 12 : 41 pm .
an earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 4 . 6 was recorded in the north bay this morning , according to the u . s . geological survey .
the quake occurred at 2 : 09 a . m . about 14 miles north - northeast of healdsburg and had a depth of 1 . 2 miles .
the region is close to the geysers geothermal plant , which has frequent earthquakes of much lower magnitude .
according to earthquaketrack . com , it is the largest earthquake in the area for the past month .
did any patch readers feel the earthquake , or perhaps wake up shortly after 2 a . m . because of it ?
tell us in the comments .
california earthquake today 2013 erupts outside sacramento .
posted : march 14th , 2013 .
a california earthquake today 2013 has erupted outside santa rosa .
the strong and shallow quake began in the predawn morning hours today thursday , march 14 , 2013 .
no reports of injuries have yet to be indicated by local news .
officials tell news that a 4 . 6 magnitude california earthquake began today shortly after 2 : 09 am pst .
the quake however had a nominal depth .
usgs indicates to news that the quake began only one mile below ground level .
as a result , the quake could be felt across the region .
mapping reveals that the quake began near clearlake , south of lakeport and west of interstate 5 .
the quake was northwest of sacramento and woodland and roseville , north of santa rosa and san francisco , and south of mendocino national forest .
usgs reports to news that the quake began two miles northeast of the geysers , four miles west of cobb , and six miles west of anderson springs .
the quake also began twelve miles east of clovedale and twenty - six mils north of santa rosa .
officials tell news that the quake also began seventy - three miles west of sacramento .
the same epicenter has been active over the years .
in june 2012 , a 3 . 0 quake struck one mile north of the geysers .
the quake was six miles west of cobb and seven miles from anderson springs .
it was also east of cloverdale and approximately twenty - six miles from santa rosa .
the quake was centered seventy - five miles north of san francisco .
an earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 4.4 struck in sonoma county this morning near the geysers , according to the u.s. geological survey .
the earthquake struck at about 9:30 a.m. and had a depth of 2.7 miles , according to the usgs .
the quake was centered about two miles from the geysers and 13 miles east of cloverdale .
earlier this morning , an earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 2.0 struck near the geysers , according to the usgs .
the earthquake struck at about 7:30 a.m. and had a depth of 1.4 miles , according to the usgs .
4 . 6 magnitude quake recorded in sonoma county .
thursday , march 14 , 2013 .
an earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 4 . 6 was recorded in the north bay this morning , according to the u . s . geological survey .
the quake occurred at 2 : 09 a . m . about 14 miles north - northeast of healdsburg and had a depth of 1 . 2 miles .
it was followed by a 2 . 9 aftershock at 2 : 12 a . m . and a 2 . 2 at 2 : 15 a . m . .
there are no reports of injuries or major damage .
a 4.2 magnitude earthquake shook a remote area of eastern sonoma county on sunday morning , the largest in a flurry over the weekend , according to the u.s. geological survey .
the temblor occurred at 9:27 a.m. , 13 miles east of cloverdale and 2 miles southeast of the geysers , where geothermal forces by more than 20 power plants are harnessed to provide energy for several north bay counties .
according to the usgs , the area has no fault , but the pumping of water from plants into the ground periodically induces small temblors .
the size of sunday morning 's earthquake caught the attention of people in cobb , a small community along highway 175 in lake county , 4 miles east of the geysers .
" shaking is n't uncommon here , but this was a pretty good jolt , " said james gaskell , manager of hardester 's grocery .
the only products to fall off shelves were q-tip boxes and mayonnaise , but " our wine rattled pretty good . " .
down the road at brick oven pizza , which opens for breakfast on weekends , " it caught our attention , " said geri angel , a waitress .
" we have teacup rattlers all the time , but pans were swinging for this one . " .
4 . 6 quake rattles sonoma county early thursday .
posted : 03 / 14 / 2013 06 : 37 : 46 am pdt .
updated : 03 / 14 / 2013 07 : 51 : 21 am pdt .
an earthquake measuring 4 . 6 rattled sonoma and lake counties early thursday , according to the u . s . geological survey .
the quake occurred at 2 : 09 a . m . , about 14 miles northeast of healdsburg , on the maacama fault with a depth of 12 miles .
a sonoma county sheriff's dispatcher said around 7 a . m . that there had been no reports of damage or injuries .
a powerful earthquake centered near the geysers shook not just communities on cobb but startled residents in other parts of the county and even in other states .
the 4.2-magnitude earthquake was recorded at approximately 9:27 a.m. sunday , according to the us geological survey , which originally had rated the quake as 4.4 in magnitude .
the us geological survey report listed the epicenter as two miles east southeast of the geysers , four miles southwest of cobb and four miles west of anderson springs , at a depth of 2.7 miles .
at 9:32 p.m. , it was followed by a 2.0-magnitude centered quake two miles east of the geysers and four miles southwest of cobb , at a depth of two-tenths of a mile , according to the us geological survey .
five more small quakes measuring between 1.0 and 1.9 on the richter scale were reported in the following half-hour .
altogether , 23 quakes occurred sunday in and around the geysers , anderson springs and cobb , including the big quake and six smaller ones that happened before it , us geological survey records show .
residents of cobb , kelseyville and hidden valley lake told lake county news that they felt the quake .
it was described as having a rolling-type movement .
no one reported damage although one person said she was nearly knocked out of her chair while sitting at the computer .
cobb resident roger kinney initially reported that the quake lasted about 10 seconds , with it coming on quickly , followed by violent shaking before it dissipated and was followed by a second shockwave five seconds later .
he said it 's the largest quake he 's felt since moving to the area two and a half years ago .
the us geological survey received reports from people from around lake county who felt the quake - including middletown , hidden valley , lakeport , spring valley , clearlake and cobb .
numerous residents of santa rosa , healdsburg , napa and san francisco also reported feeling it .
there were even reports from as far away as south lake tahoe , vacaville and las vegas .
the last earthquake measuring 3.0 or above occurred on dec. 30 , three miles east of the geysers at a depth of 1.1 miles .
it measured 3.0 on the richter scale , as lake county news has reported .
4 . 6 - magnitude earthquake shakes lake county .
thursday , march 14 , 2013 .
lake county's cobb mountain community was shaken awake early thursday morning by a magnitude 4 . 6 earthquake that startled even folks accustomed to seismic activity because of its size .
while shakers around magnitude 2 and 3 are common to the area , thursday's 2 : 09 a . m . jolt lasted longer and proved stronger than usual , residents said .
"it lasted a really long time .
you could tell" it was larger , said hardester's market clerk alicia mullin .
"it was pretty significant , " said bonnie evans at the texaco station in town , where cigarettes , canned soups and a couple of bottles in the walk - in fridge had been knocked to the ground .
the u . s . geological survey reported that the quake was centered about 3 miles southwest of cobb , in a seismically active area near the geysers geothermal steamfields .
residents of sonoma county felt it , too , including some as far south as santa rosa .
a light earthquake has struck northern california , and there are no reports of injuries or damage .
the u.s. geological survey says the 4.4-magnitude temblor on sunday at 9:27 a.m. was centered 23 miles north of santa rosa , and two miles from the geysers .
good sized quake at the california geysers .
i felt this one pretty good .
i'm located 25 miles south of the quake .
slow easy rocking for about 6 seconds .
this one is pretty rare for the geysers .
the geysers is one of the most active areas of northern california with small earthquakes hitting the area nearly every week .
a 4 . 4 quake is on the large size for the geysers .
the ugsg website says the largest quake ever to be recorded there was 4 . 5 .
4 . 6 - magnitude earthquake recorded near healdsburg .
did you feel the earthquake ?
march 14 , 2013 at 11 : 51 am .
an earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 4 . 6 was recorded in the north bay this morning , according to the u . s . geological survey .
the quake occurred at 2 : 09 a . m . about 14 miles north - northeast of healdsburg and had a depth of 1 . 2 miles .
did you feel the earthquake ?
have you felt any aftershocks ?
lake county earthquake shakes napa .
march 14 , 2013 6 : 13 am .
the napa valley was shaken at 2 : 09 a . m . thursday by a magnitude 4 . 6 earthquake located near clearlake in lake county , the u . s . geological survey reported .
the temblor rattled homes in napa , but would not have been expected to do any local damage .
the usgs rates 4 . 6 magnitude as a "light" quake .
two aftershocks , magnitude 2 . 9 and 2 . 2 , occurred immediately following .
march 14 , 2013 - united states - .
a 4 . 6 - magnitude earthquake rattled northern california overnight thursday , shaking residents from san francisco to north of sacramento .
the temblor struck at 2 : 09 a . m . and was centered in geyserville , about 20 miles north of santa rosa , according to the u . s . geological survey .
usgs measurements indicated at least 20 smaller earthquakes followed throughout the morning .
the santa rosa press democrat reported the quake began only one mile below ground level , which is why it was felt across the region .
there were no immediate reports of damage , the newspaper said .
but it woke people up .
more than 60 people reported to usgs's "did you feel it ? " site , with reports ranging from san francisco and oakland to lake and yuba counties .
others reported the shaking on twitter .
tectonic summary - maacama fault .
the maacama fault is mostly a right - lateral strike - slip fault that lies north of santa rosa and the immediate san francisco bay area and extends as far north as ukiah .
it connects to the rodgers creek fault through a complex set of faults between santa rosa and healdsburg , and is thought to be the northward continuation of the hayward - rodgers creek fault system .
the 2007 working group for california earthquake probability assigned a total slip rate on the maacama fault of approximately 9 mm / yr ( 1 / 3 inches / yr ) , based on the assumption that it continues the slip on the hayward - rodgers creek fault northward .
the central and northern sections of the fault have been observed to accommodate approximately 7 mm / yr ( 1 / 4 inch / year ) of creep along it .
the maacama fault parallels and overlaps the rodgers creek fault , in a geometry that is causing the ground between the faults to subside .
in sonoma county north of healdsburg , the maacama fault is largely obscured by massive landslides where it passes east of alexander valley .
the 2007 working group for california earthquake probability combined the maacama and the garberville faults into single a 181 - km ( 110 mile ) long fault and determined m7 . 5 as the maximum magnitude for this combined fault system .
there is very little known about the seismic history or earthquake cycle of the maacama fault , and as such recurrence intervals are uncertain .
4 . 6 earthquake shakes northern california .
march 14 , 2013 | 8 : 16 am .
a magnitude 4 . 6 earthquake struck northern california on thursday morning , .
the temblor struck about 26 miles north of santa rosa in the geysers area .
there were no reports of damage or injuries , but there were some apparent aftershocks .
it was felt over a wide area of the region , including in santa rosa , marin county and vallejo , according to the u . s . geological survey .
the "do you feel it ? " survey by the usgs showed people as far south a san francisco felt shaking .
magnitude 4 . 6 earthquake shakes up north bay .
march 14 , 2013 5 : 22 am .
an earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 4 . 6 was recorded in the north bay thursday morning , according to the u . s . geological survey .
the quake occurred at 2 : 09 a . m . about 14 miles north - northeast of healdsburg and had a depth of 1 . 2 miles .
the show has been running for 45-years , and the fans of the show will always remember the ten actors who played doctor who before smith , his name will now join that exclusive list .
each actor has brought something unique to the role , so smith will have his work cut out .
matt smith has time to come to terms to the task ahead , as current doctor who , david tennant will not leave the bbc show until the end of 2009 .
smith will play the time lord in 2010 .
do you think smith will make a great doctor who ?
peter capaldi to replace matt smith on 'doctor who' .
published sunday , aug 4 2013 , 19 : 30 bst .
peter capaldi is to be the new star of doctor who .
the thick of it actor will play the 12th doctor , replacing matt smith on bbc one's hit sci - fi drama .
capaldi was unveiled on tonight's ( august 4 ) special show doctor who live : the next doctor on bbc one and gave his first interview since taking the role with host zoe ball .
he had been widely tipped to take the role for days , with bookmakers suspending betting yesterday after making him the odds - on favourite .
he will take over from smith in this year's christmas special ahead of his first full series as the time lord in 2014 .
jenna coleman , who plays current companion clara , will join capaldi for the show's eighth series since returning to screens in 2005 .
capaldi - a long - time fan of the show - revealed that he discovered that he had been cast as the 12th doctor while filming in prague for the bbc's upcoming adaptation of the three musketeers .
in a statement , the 55 - year - old said : "being asked to play the doctor is an amazing privilege .
like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
i can't wait to get started . " .
executive producer steven moffat added : "it's an incendiary combination : one of the most talented actors of his generation is about to play the best part on television .
peter capaldi is in the tardis ! " .
jenna coleman revealed that she is "so excited" to welcome peter capaldi as the 12th incarnation of the doctor , adding : "with steven's writing and his talent i know we'll be making an amazing show with an incredible incarnation of number 12 .
"i can't wait to start this new adventure ! " .
ben stephenson , controller of bbc drama commissioning , said : "we started thinking peter capaldi might be the right person to take on this iconic part a few months ago .
"but it was only when he did a secret audition at steven's house under the cover of darkness that we knew we had our man .
he's an extraordinarily talented actor who can seemingly turn his hand to anything .
"we can't wait to premiere his unique take on the doctor on christmas day and we are sure he's going to become one of the all - time classic doctors . " .
doctor who returns to screens on november 23 for its 50th anniversary special starring matt smith , david tennant and john hurt .
relatively unknown actor matt smith was named as the next face of tv 's most famous time traveller .
peter capaldi announced as the new doctor who .
august 05 , 2013 4 : 14pm .
peter capaldi has been announced as the new doctor who , the 12th actor to take up the coveted tv role .
fans eagerly awaited the news , which was broadcast during a special live show on abc this morning .
the 55 - year - old scottish actor will replace matt smith , who announced in june that he was leaving the sci - fi show later this year .
scroll down to see the first xi doctors and tell us who your favourite has been .
capaldi is best known in britain for his starring role as a sharp - tongued spin doctor malcolm tucker in the critically - acclaimed uk political comedy the thick of it .
he has a long list of movie , television and stage credits , from the 1983 film local hero to a role alongside brad pitt in the recent zombie horror world war z .
he's also an oscar winner - he directed franz kafka's it's a wonderful life , which won the academy award for best short film in 1994 .
in a live interview with the bbc capaldi admitted he had been a long - time fan of the show .
he said he used to pretend to be the doctor as a child growing up in glasgow .
"being asked to play the doctor is an amazing privilege .
like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
i can't wait to get started , " he said .
"i haven't played it since i was nine .
as an adult actor i've never worked on it .
" ( for the audition ) i downloaded some old scripts from the internet and pracitised that in front of the mirror . " .
the role will be a dramatic change from capaldi's turn as tucker , a political manipulator known for his ceaseless and creative use of expletives .
doctor who is a firmly child - friendly program .
"i think malcolm has been banished from the mirror by this doctor who , who certainly would not put up with any of malcolm's language or attitude , " capaldi said .
capaldi attributed the longevity of the show to the creative team behind it as well as to its millions of fans around the world .
the show is a television institution , making its debut in 1963 .
in the show the galaxy - hopping time lord travels in the tardis , a time machine shaped like an old - fashioned british police telephone booth .
its longevity is due partly to the flexibility of the premise .
the doctor can regenerate into new bodies , and can travel to any point in space or time .
the show went off air in 1989 and was revived in 2005 when christopher eccleston took on the role .
david tennant then starred for three seasons before smith took over in 2010 .
talking about his time in the show , smith told the bbc live show : 'i'll miss playing a character who can bounce from a - z and be the smartest in the room and the silliest in the room . . .
what a character ! " .
on saturday it was announced that the actor to play the eleventh doctor was none other than matt smith .
" who ? " asked people entirely appropriately .
on saturday , the 26-year-old was handed the keys to the tardis when he was unveiled as the 11th doctor who , replacing david tennant , who steps down later this year .
matt , who has stage and tv credits , will take up the role in 2010 .
this weekend doctor who fans finally learned who would play the eleventh doctor after david tennant leaves the role .
matt smith will take up steering the tardis and saving the universe when the series returns for its fifth season .
the bbc says little-known actor matt smith will take over the title role in the long-running sci-fi series " doctor who . " .
4 august 2013 last updated at 19 : 47 gmt .
doctor who : peter capaldi revealed as 12th doctor .
actor peter capaldi has been announced as the new star of bbc sci - fi series doctor who .
the 55 - year - old glasgow - born star will be the 12th actor to play the doctor , replacing out - going lead matt smith .
capaldi is best known for his role as foul - mouthed spin - doctor malcolm tucker in the bbc series the thick of it .
"it's so wonderful not to keep this secret any longer , but it's been so fantastic , " he said after the news was revealed on a live bbc one show .
the actor had been the bookmakers' favourite to take on the role , with betting on him becoming the next doctor suspended on friday .
it is not the first time capaldi has appeared on the show - he played roman merchant caecilius in 2008 doctor who adventure the fires of pompeii .
at 55 , he is the same age as william hartnell when he was cast in the role as the first doctor in 1963 .
"being asked to play the doctor is an amazing privilege .
like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
i can't wait to get started , " he said .
secret audition .
steven moffat , the show's lead writer and executive producer , said casting capaldi as the doctor was an "incendiary combination" .
"one of the most talented actors of his generation is about to play the best part on television . " .
moffat said capaldi had been cast after a secret audition at his house .
"we made a home video of [ capaldi ] being the doctor and i showed it around and everyone said 'yes , that's the doctor' .
moffat added the actor had "briefly flicked through my mind" the last time he was casting the role , but he did not think he was right for the part , however "now that moment has arrived" .
capaldi said he downloaded old doctor who scripts from the internet and practised the lines in front of a mirror to prepare for the audition .
he revealed he was filming a bbc adaptation of the three musketeers in prague when he found out he got the part .
"i had my phone on silent so i missed the call , " he said .
"it was my agent and i rang her up and she said 'hello doctor' - i haven't stopped laughing since . " .
'incredible incarnation' .
out - going doctor matt smith welcomed capaldi's casting , and pre - recorded a message for the new time lord .
"i wish my successor all the best and say good luck and good on you for getting it , because i know he's both a huge fan of the show and a really nice guy , " he said .
"the casting made me ready excited and as a fan i think it's a canny choice .
if i had to pick someone , i'd pick him because i think he's great .
i'm excited because i know what's coming and he's going to have a blast . " .
jenna coleman , who stars as current doctor who companion clara , said : "i'm so excited peter capaldi is the man taking on the challenge of becoming the 12th doctor .
"with steven's writing and his talent i know we'll be making an amazing show with an incredible incarnation of number 12 .
i can't wait to start this new adventure . " .
ben stephenson , controller of bbc drama commissioning said capaldi was "an extraordinarily talented actor who can seemingly turn his hand to anything" .
"we can't wait to premiere his unique take on the doctor on christmas day and we are sure he's going to become one of the all - time classic doctors . " .
following the announcement , the thick of it writer armando ianucci tweeted : "there can't be a funnier , wiser , more exciting time lord than peter capaldi .
the universe is in great hands . " .
capaldi will film his first scenes on the series this autumn .
with young british actor matt smith stepping into doctor who 's title role , wired.com takes a look back at the 10 actors who have previously portrayed sci-fi tv 's most enduring hero .
peter capaldi was the only name considered to take over doctor who role from matt smith , says show boss steven moffat .
5 aug 2013 10 : 37 .
showrunner , 51 , adds that malcolm tucker will not cast a shadow over new time lord : "you know when the doctor is in the room" .
doctor who boss steven moffat has revealed that peter capaldi was the only name considered to take over from matt smith .
speaking after last night's announcement of the thick of it star as the twelfth doctor , moffat also said that the 55 - year - old's lifelong love of doctor who had been an aspect when it came to casting him .
asked whether the list of time lord contenders was a short one , moffat said : "yes .
the list went 'peter capaldi' .
it was a very short list . " .
he added : " [ capaldi came into consideration ] a fair amount of time ago .
i happened to know he's a big fan .
"there's something very seductive about an utterly brilliant , arresting looking leading man actor - one of the most talented actors in britain - who you happen to know is a big fan of the show .
"you start to think 'maybe we should so something about that' . " .
the 51 - year - old showrunner also insisted that capaldi's most heralded and readily identifiable previous role - as sweary spin doctor malcolm tucker - would not overshadow his new position in charge of the tardis .
"you know when the doctor is in the room , " said moffat .
"i've seen the doctor not be in the room when you say those lines out loud .
"and just to check we weren't mad we showed it to [ bbc head of drama ] ben [ stephenson ] .
and we all just thought 'yes , obviously that's it .
the doctor's in the room' . " .
producer moffat , who is also a co - creator of sherlock , is sure that fans will agree that capaldi is the perfect choice .
"when you watched him walk out in the room tonight , didn't you just think 'well , there he is' ? " he said .
"suddenly he's the doctor .
malcolm tucker is knocked out of the way .
he's just suddenly this magnificent new man . " .
last night's unveiling of capaldi was watched by 6 . 1m people ( a 29 . 8% share of the tv - watching audience ) , peaking at 6 . 9m .
tennant has now been voted one of the most popular doctors of all time and is handing his sonic screwdriver over to actor matt smith .
of course , there has been a media frenzy , with practically every national tabloid screaming " who ? ? " .
but the casting of smith is a stroke of genius : he will not bring any " star personality " with him that perhaps a " name " would have , but he seems utterly committed , and i have to say he does have an other-worldly look to him .
peter capaldi : from spin doctor to the new doctor who .
scottish actor best known for his role as malcolm tucker in the thick of it revealed as 12th actor to play the doctor .
monday 5 august 2013 08 . 33 bst .
peter capaldi , best known for playing foul - mouthed spin doctor malcolm tucker in political satire the thick of it , has been named as the 12th actor to play the doctor in the tv series doctor who .
the 55 - year old glasgow - born actor , a self - confessed lifelong doctor who fan , is the oldest actor to play the time lord since the first doctor , william hartnell , in 1963 .
he will replace matt smith , the youngest ever doctor at 26 when he was introduced in 2009 .
the new doctor was announced in a special live broadcast on bbc1 on sunday night .
capaldi had been firmly installed as the bookies' favourite ahead of contenders including luther's idris elba , ben whishaw and daniel rigby , despite a cloak of secrecy surrounding the identity of the new doctor .
internally the bbc referred to the selection process as project houdini , with reportedly only 10 people knowing capaldi had been chosen .
"it is so wonderful not to keep this secret any more , " he said .
"for a while i couldn't even tell my daughter .
being asked to play the doctor is an amazing privilege .
like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
i can't wait to get started . " .
capaldi admitted that it would be tricky to throw off the spectre of his most famous on screen persona , the wily and unscrupulous spin doctor malcolm tucker for the hit bbc show .
"i think malcolm has been banished from the mirror by the new doctor who wouldn't put up with malcolm's attitude to the world , " said capaldi in an interview with zoe ball .
capaldi , who described himself as a "full anorak" doctor who fan who once wrote a letter aged 15 about doctor who to the radio times , admitted he was yet to get his head around being named as one of british tv's most enduring and best loved characters .
"he's not me yet , " he said .
"but he is reaching out and hopefully we will get it together .
even though i am a lifelong doctor who fan i've not played him since i was nine .
i downloaded old scripts and practised those in front of the mirror . " .
capaldi is not completely new to doctor who , having appeared in the programme playing caecilius in the episode "the fires of pompeii" in 2008 with david tennant .
steven moffat , lead writer and executive producer of doctor who , said : "it's an incendiary combination : one of the most talented actors of his generation is about to play the best part on television . " he said .
" peter capaldi is in the tardis . " .
capaldi said he had his phone on silent when he received the call that he had got the role - he was in prague shooting a bbc remake of the three musketeers , where he plays cardinal richelieu .
an assistant delivered the good news by saying : "hello doctor" .
moffat said capaldi had been thought of before but that the timing had not been right .
"we all had an idea , we all had the same idea , it was quite a different idea , " he said .
"we got the notional 12th doctor around to my house and made a home video .
"everyone said 'yes' that is the doctor .
there comes a right time for the right person to play it .
that moment has arrived . " .
the live announcement was broadcast simultaneously on bbc america , highlighting the increasing popularity of the franchise internationally and growing importance of the world's biggest tv market for the bbc franchise .
in doctor who lore capaldi is the 12th doctor , leaving just one left and raising the long - held question of how the script writers will overcome the problem to keep the franchise going .
"we're getting towards the end of the incarnation cycle and everyone always remembers that bit of the overall plot , " said tom spilsbury , editor of the official doctor who magazine .
"the question is probably a few years away now for doctor who fans , i don't think they will be worried about it just yet .
doctor who is popular so [ the bbc ] will invent away to get around it when the time comes , won't they ? " .
the hope of a first female doctor has once again been dashed , though moffat tantalisingly hinted that the prospect remained for the future .
"time lords can change gender , so it is not against the rules , " he said .
jenna coleman , who will remain as the doctor's companion when capaldi takes over the role next year , said : "with steven's writing and his talent i know we'll be making an amazing show with an incredible incarnation of number 12 .
i can't wait to start this new adventure . " .
the decision was welcomed by smith who pre - recorded a message to capaldi , saying : "i just want to wish my successor all the best and just say good luck and good on you for getting it , because i know he is both a huge fan of the show and a really nice guy .
"the casting of it made me really excited genuinely , and as a fan i think it's a really canny choice , so good luck mate , it's going to be a thrill . " .
smith added : "if i had to pick someone , i'd pick him , because i think he's great .
and weirdly enough , after the 11th hour , he came up to me in the street and said , 'ah mate , well done .
i watched your episode last night , it was brilliant , i think you're really good' .
and i really needed that , i needed a sort of boost and i never forgot it . " .
capaldi has appeared in more than 40 films and tv shows , including dangerous liaisons , shooting fish , minder , the vicar of dibley , peep show and waking the dead , since being cast as danny oldsen in the 1983 film local hero .
he is also playing guardian editor alan rusbridger in the forthcoming film about the wikileaks affair .
when matt smith stepped into doctor who 's title role as the 11th doctor this weekend , he went from british character actor to potential entertainment legend .
peter capaldi exclusively revealed to the nation as the twelfth doctor .
sunday 4 august 2013 , 19 : 30 .
amid much hype and speculation , peter capaldi was unveiled as the next doctor during a special live television event on bbc one tonight .
widely regarded as one of the biggest roles in british television , capaldi will be the twelfth doctor and takes over from matt smith who leaves the show at christmas .
peter capaldi says : "being asked to play the doctor is an amazing privilege .
like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
i can't wait to get started . " .
steven moffat , lead writer and executive producer says : "it's an incendiary combination : one of the most talented actors of his generation is about to play the best part on television .
peter capaldi is in the tardis ! " .
doctor who companion , jenna coleman says : "i'm so excited peter capaldi is the man taking on the challenge of becoming the twelfth doctor .
with steven's writing and his talent i know we'll be making an amazing show with an incredible incarnation of number 12 .
i can't wait to start this new adventure ! " .
charlotte moore , controller bbc one says : "peter capaldi has all the genius and versatility needed to take on the mantel of the great time lord and make the role his own .
he'll bring his own particular wisdom , charisma and wit to the twelfth doctor and take the show into an exciting new era . " .
ben stephenson , controller , bbc drama commissioning says : "we started thinking peter capaldi might be the right person to take on this iconic part a few months ago .
but it was only when he did a secret audition at steven's house under the cover of darkness that we knew we had our man .
he's an extraordinarily talented actor who can seemingly turn his hand to anything .
we can't wait to premiere his unique take on the doctor on christmas day and we are sure he's going to become one of the all - time classic doctors . " .
doctor who is produced by bbc cymru wales .
smith , 26 , who played a young political researcher in the show , will become the biggest star of all after winning the role of the 11th doctor .
speaking to the guardian , buchan said his old co-star would make an excellent doctor who .
" it 's a sublime bit of casting .
he 's got that huge hair , a twinkle in his eye - matt 's the king of geek chic .
he is possibly going to be one of the best doctors we 've ever had . " .
peter capaldi takes over doctor who tardis : john barrowman , stephen fry &amp; mcfly's tom fletcher lead celeb congrats .
celeb fans took to twitter as matt smith's replacement was unveiled .
the new doctor who has finally been unveiled .
yesterday evening the new tenant of the tardis was unveiled as peter capaldi stepped into matt smith's soon to be vacant doctor who shoes as the twelfth incarnation of the time lord .
celebrity who fans were soon taking to twitter in their droves to voice their excitement at the doctor's appointment .
the thick of it star , capaldi described himself as a "life - long doctor who fan" when revealed by zoe ball as smith's successor on a live bbc show on sunday evening .
he said in his first interview : "it's so wonderful not to keep the secret any longer ! " .
"for a while i couldn't tell my daughter , who'd be looking on the internet at people saying 'so - and - so should be doctor who , so - and - so should be doctor who . . .
she was getting rather upset that they never mentioned me ! " .
the 55 - year - old is a hugely popular choice , judging by some celebrity twitter chatter last night .
huge who fan stephen fry tweeted : "well , at least they've chosen a wonderful actor . . . #drwho" whilst former companion karen gillan was more than happy with peter , who she starred with in 2008 doctor who episode the fires of pompeii .
"capaldi !
superb choice .
swear i've seen him in pompeii . . . " .
sherlock star and doctor who writer mark gatiss added to the gushing messages .
"thrilling , moving , beyond exciting .
cometh the hour , cometh the man !
peter capaldi is the perfect choice .
welcome , doctor ! " .
self confessed sci - fi geek tom fletcher from mcfly was the envy of his twitter followers as he heard the news live from the studio , sitting amongst fellow doctor who fans as he tweeted .
"that was tense , was sweating waiting for the big reveal !
sooooo it's peter capaldi .
big change !
exciting innit ! ! ! " .
former doctor colin baker tweeted : "delighted to hear peter capaldi is the new doctor , very good choice .
another scot eh ?
nice to have a more mature doctor too .
bring it on ! ! " .
captain jack harkness , john barrowman added his congrats : "peter capaldi good choice and good actor .
also he's #scottish .
can't go wrong : ) .
welcome to the #doctorwho family : ) " .
finally homeland star david harewood , one of the buzzed about names to take over the role , managed a cheeky joke amid all the excitement : "well if it is me the bleedin taxi's late .
a relative unknown will take over the title role of doctor who in the british science fiction television show , making him the 11th time lord in 45 years to travel across the universe in the tardis time-ship .
matt smith , 26 , will make his debut in 2010 , replacing david tennant , who leaves at the end of this year .
he is the youngest actor to play the part .
smith has previously appeared on tv , in films and the theatre and is best known for appearing in the bbc 's the ruby in the smoke .
doctor who revealed : peter capaldi cast as the 12th time lord !
sun . , aug . 4 , 2013 11 : 29 am pdt .
meet your new time lord !
doctor who has finally selected its 12th doctor : peter capaldi is officially set to replace exiting star matt smith as the tardis leader , producer steven moffat announced on the live bbc special doctor who live : the next doctor sunday .
well known for his work as malcolm tucker on the thick of it , capaldi , 55 , isn't a stranger to the longrunning bbc hit's fans : he appeared opposite david tennant in the fires of pompeii in 2008 as caecilius and had a major role on torchwood : children of earth , the doctor who spinoff series .
"being asked to play the doctor is an amazing privilege , " capaldi said .
"like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
it's so wonderful not to keep this secret any longer , but it's been so fantastic . " .
"i just want to wish my successor all the best and say good luck and good on you for getting it , " smith said in a videotaped message .
"i know he's a huge fan of the show and a really nice guy .
the casting of it made me really excited it .
i think it's a really canny choice .
good luck , man .
it's going to be a thrill . " .
oddly enough , capaldi was recently seen in brad pitt's world war z as a world health organization doctor , or w . h . o . doctor , for short .
the big reveal was arguably britain's second most highly - anticipated announcement in recent history , following prince george's arrival , with bbc even promoting the announcement that an announcement would be made .
"the decision is made &amp; the time has come to reveal who's taking over the tardis , " bbcone promoted on twitter .
"for the last of the time lords , the clock is striking twelve . " .
smith had played the iconic role since 2010 and shocked fans when he announced his his departure from the series in june .
"doctor who has been the most brilliant experience for me as an actor and a bloke , and that largely is down to the cast , crew and fans of the show .
i'm incredibly grateful to all the cast and crew who work tirelessly every day , to realise all the elements of the show and deliver doctor who to the audience , " he wrote on bbc's doctor who website .
"many of them have become good friends and i'm incredibly proud of what we have achieved over the last four years . " .
the series' 50th anniversary special , which all air in november , is set to be smith's last official outing as the doctor , but it's been revealed that he will also make an appearance in the christmas special .
when the 26-year-old unknown was unveiled as the 11th doctor on saturday evening , it took most viewers by surprise .
'doctor who' : peter capaldi announced as the new doctor .
august 4 , 2013 2 : 29 pm et .
after lots of speculation , peter capaldi has been named the new doctor for series 8 of "doctor who . " .
he will take over for matt smith , the 12th doctor , who is leaving during the 2013 christmas special .
the announcement was made sunday ( august 4 ) , during "doctor who live : the next doctor , " which aired on bbc and bbc america .
capaldi , a scottish actor , is best known for starring in the bbc series "thick of it , " though he has a few movie credits to his name , as well .
he appeared in "world war z" ( ironically , in the role of w . h . o . doctor ) and has a part in the upcoming "maleficent , " starring angelina jolie .
capaldi has also appeared on "doctor who" before , guest starring in the series 4 episode "the fires of pompeii . " .
the live special , hosted by zoe ball , featured celebrity guests sharing their love for "doctor who , " including peter davison ( 5th doctor ) .
the show also featured an interview with smith , who endorsed the new doctor .
"if i had to pick someone , it would be [ capaldi ] .
i think he's great , " he says .
"i just want to wish my successor all the best . " .
it was first announced smith would be leaving the show in june .
he joined the series , becoming the 11th doctor , in 2010 .
he was the third to take on the role since the series was relaunched in 2005 , following in the footsteps of christopher eccleston ( 9th doctor ) and david tennant ( 10th doctor ) .
the new doctor will be introduced as smith leaves the role , regenerating in the 2013 christmas special ( airing december 25 ) .
it will also serve as the show's 800th episode .
smith was first introduced in the 2009 christmas special , "the end of time . " .
just hours after little-known actor matt smith was named as the new doctor in the bbc wales hit show , speculation mounted that a star name would accompany him on his time-travelling adventures .
peter capaldi favourite to take over from matt smith as doctor who .
wednesday 31 jul 2013 11 : 20 am .
peter capaldi is the bookies' favourite to become the next doctor who .
there has been a surge in bets on capaldi , who plays sweary spin doctor malcom tucker in the thick of it , replacing matt smith , according to william hill .
joe crilly , a spokesperson for william hill , said : 'peter capaldi was not even in our list a few days ago but he has been the subject of a lot of betting interest recently and this gamble would suggest that if he does not have the part already , he is almost certainly on the shortlist . ' .
he now has odds of 2 / 1 to become the 12th time lord above ben daniels and rory kinnear .
previous favourite kinnear has slipped down the list after he ruled himself out of the running , claiming he's never seen an episode of doctor who .
capaldi's name may have been linked to the role after doctor who creator steven moffat said he would not rule out casting an older doctor .
he said at the recent san diego comic - con : 'we've never not considered an older doctor .
it is completely on all the lists we make - there are absolutely older doctors . ' .
26-year-old matt smith has been cast as the next incarnation of the doctor .
users on the facebook doctor who forum that i frequent mostly had the same reaction : " who 's matt smith ? " .
the guy is relatively unknown and the skeptics wondered if the right person was chosen .
after all , everyone speculated that paterson joseph , who had appeared on a couple episodes of the show , was going to be the next doctor and here we get some no-name .
peter capaldi as 'doctor who' : a return to distinguished tradition ?
aug . 05 , 2013 | 2 : 47 p . m .
and as the world ( or one obsessed subset thereof ) watched , the name of the person to play the twelfth doctor - though not , of course , the name of the doctor , which shall remain unspoken - was revealed .
peter capaldi , the bookmakers' choice by a wide margin , will take over for the retiring matt smith , the doctor since 2010 .
smith's doctor will regenerate into capaldi's - same character , just a different body - this christmas .
the new star of "doctor who" is best known to americans , which is not to say well known , as the f - bombing spin doctor in armando iannucci's political comedies "the thick of it" ( bbc series ) and "in the loop" ( film spinoff ) and , reaching back through the foggy mists of time , for bill forsyth's gentle comedy of scotland , "local hero . " .
he is , at any rate , better known to us than were his immediate predecessors , christopher eccleston , david tennant and smith , when they assumed the role .
he has twice appeared in the whoniverse , as a first - century businessman in "the fires of pompeii" and a tragic figure at the center of the spun - off "torchwood" miniseries , "children of earth . " .
he also appears in "world war z" as a world health organization , or who , doctor .
you felt a little chill then , didn't you ?
the announcement came sunday , after months of public speculation and wish - listing , conspiratorial sifting of coincidence and readings of tea leaves , near the end of "doctor who live : the next doctor , " a bbc special that aired here simultaneously on bbc america .
it is not to be confused with the big 50th anniversary special set for november .
with fifth doctor peter davison ( the cricket - sweater doctor ) and elderly companion bernard cribbens as its main in - studio star power and a floating tardis ( police - box shaped time machine , for the uninitiated ) introduced as a "special guest , " it was , global interest aside , a small - scale , essentially local , even provincial , event .
because whatever else the new doctor would turn out to be - and , if recent history was any guide he would turn out to be tall , thin , white , clean - shaven , not bald and unconventionally attractive ( check , check , check , check , check and check ) - it was going to be somebody british .
as does james bond , "doctor who" posits a world in which the u . k . is still at the center of things .
it's where the aliens arrive , and the earth is repeatedly saved .
some had hoped for a black doctor ( idris elba was often named ) , or a female doctor ( olivia colman , perhaps ) , and as with other great and important offices , it does seem only right that it be open to anyone , regardless of gender or color .
indeed , if it seemed just possible this time , it's hard to believe the next doctor won't break one of those lines , or both .
that capaldi is an award - winning actor of great reputation does not necessarily mean that it will be any easier for him to take control of the tardis .
every new doctor represents a testing of the brand and a testing of the faithful ; there are viewers still mourning the loss of david tennant ( no . 10 ) , and undoubtedly some who feel nothing's been as good since tom baker ( no . 4 ) quit , back in 1981 .
it is also , and not incidentally , a test of the show runner , steven moffat , who came in with smith , following series - rebooter russell t davies .
show runners are a thing we know about now ; we know whom to blame , and moffat draws a fair share .
still , first reactions seem on the whole approving , though some younger online commenters bemoaned capaldi's age - 55 , the age of william hartnell when he created the role , back in 1963 .
fangirls who crushed on the younger eccleston , tennant and / or smith wondered how they would adapt to a doctor old enough to be their dad .
there is , of course , plenty of precedent for gray - haired swashbucklers ( your gandalf , actually called gray , your obi - wan kenobi , your very vibrant third doctor , john pertwee ) .
and moffat can always create companions for raw youth appeal , as was the original custom .
( hartnell's doctor traveled with a granddaughter . ) .
certainly , capaldi represents a change from matt smith - thought by some to be too young for the part when he took over , ironically - but he also offers a range of new tonal possibilities , some of which are also old possibilities .
moffat may be more of a "who" classicist than davies , who brought sex , romance and a will - they - won't - they element to the series .
it may be time for the return of a more fatherly doctor .
if you look back across the whole life of the series , capaldi seems very much in the tradition - a likely , almost obvious choice .
he has the authority , the madness , the sweetness .
at the same time , we don't know how moffat plans to write him .
the doctor is as constant as the stars and as changeable as the wind ; he is a warrior clown , comical and stern , a thousand - year - old child , a tenderhearted soul who loves humanity and yet is renowned across the universe as the scourge of worlds .
( typically , these are worlds that deserve a scourge . ) .
there is a lot of room to play in there .
fans - especially british fans , whose allegiance spans decades and generations , speak of "my doctor" as if every citizen needs to have a favorite - do have strong ideas about what the doctor should be .
but variety is in his nature , and in choosing to take this ride , we agree to accept the authenticity of the latest anointed choice - a choice no more in our hands , after all , than it is in the doctor's .
he is always surprised by who he next finds himself to be .
for most viewers the doctor shapes himself to the actor , even as the actor shapes the part .
you want to honor the tradition , naturally , and you can't afford to alienate your audience .
still , fear of change is a poor basis for creative decision - the point , moffat told hero complex recently , was to bring the world around : 'you want people to go , 'no , that would never work ! ' . . .
and they always get wrenched out of their comfort zone , and then they find the doctor again .
and there's such a range of what the doctor can be . " .
i'm excited .
bettie page , the 1950s pinup and bondage model who provided more than a half-century of inspiration for everybody from madonna to the suicide girls to artist olivia de berardinis ( as well as having her image used on all sorts of merchandise ) , died yesterday in los angeles at the age of 85 .
born in nashville , page left her job as a schoolteacher and secretary to begin a career in modeling in 1950 .
throughout the 50s , she appeared clad in leopard print bikinis , black leather , and wielding whips in publications like wink and titter .
in 1955 , she appeared in a christmas spread for playboy .
she had appeared in thousands of photos when she abruptly walked away from her career at the age of 35 .
in 1995 , page was summoned to testify before the u.s. senate at anti-pornography hearings .
she moved to florida shortly thereafter , became a born-again christian , suffered a nervous breakdown , and was diagnosed as a schizophrenic .
but her legend grew over the years , as her image kept reappearing in popular culture .
she was the inspiration for a character in dale stevens ' 1982 comic series the rocketeer , and the 1991 movie based on the series had actress jennifer connolly in the page-inspired role .
artist olivia de berardinis also immortalized page in several paintings , which have become popular tattoos among modern day rockabilly and goth girls .
page learned of her career resurgence after being released from a mental hospital in 1992 .
bettie page t-shirts , posters , watches , wallets , and more were hot-sellers , and although page refused to have her picture taken the last two decades of her life , she embraced her legacy and occasionally did meet-and-greet signings at events throughout the u.s. and gave her blessing to an official web site , www.bettiepage.com .
page had been hospitalized for the past three weeks for pneumonia .
she was scheduled to be released december 2 , but suffered a heart attack .
her health never recovered , and she passed at away at 6 : 41 last night .
a number of sites have already posted tributes to page .
you can check out the tributes in the l.a. times , at mtv.com , and also at page 's official site .
esther williams , olympic swimmer turned actress and pinup girl , dies at 91 .
esther williams , the swimming champion turned actress who starred in glittering and aquatic technicolor musicals of the 1940s and 1950s , has died .
she was 91 .
williams died early thursday in her sleep , according to her longtime publicist harlan boll .
williams in a bathing suit became a favorite pinup of gi's in world war ii , and her popularity continued afterward .
bettie page , the 1950s pin-up queen and pop culture icon who died on thursday , will be remembered for her indomitable influence on style , fashion , and sexual expression .
but as bettie 's biographer -- and the only one with whom she ever cooperated -- i can tell you that the underground bondage queen also had the unlikely effect of thematically shaping a series of biographical and highly feminist novels about powerful women in history .
in 1991 , intrigued by the resurgence of bettie 's image in venues as diverse as rockabilly clubs , nostalgia rags , and s and m fashion gone mainstream , i wrote a cover story for the l.a. weekly , " in search of bettie page . " .
for nine months , i had tracked down anyone who had ever known her or photographed her .
but bettie herself , the object of much speculation , remained elusive .
most people thought she was dead .
then , as fate would have it , someone gave bettie , who was living in anonymity and seclusion , a copy of the article .
imagine the shock -- a seventy-something senior citizen who ran away from it all forty years prior , suddenly finds that she is famous again .
but she liked it .
though she did not want to re-enter the public arena , bettie sent me a letter praising the piece , calling us " kindred spirits . " .
soon , with co-author james swanson , i embarked on the adventure of writing her biography , sitting down with her for hundreds of hours while she told us her story .
at the time , i was also trying to work out how to tell the stories of women in history who had been either dropped from the record or misinterpreted through the sexist lens of their biographers .
i was to start with kleopatra ( the original greek spelling ) , a victim of roman propaganda remembered for the men with whom she slept rather than for her diplomacy , leadership , and the fact that she had mastered nine languages .
how to present the stories of women who had been victimized without writing a victim story , i kept asking myself ?
how to give women in history who had been reduced to their sexuality the full breadth of their experience without diminishing or demeaning their sexuality ?
so here was bettie page , a woman known only for her sexuality , who had been sexually abused by her father , sexually violated by a gang of strangers , and emotionally battered by a husband .
in the years since she had gone underground , bettie had become a born-again christian working for the billy graham crusade .
surely she would repudiate the work she 'd done as a pin-up and bondage model .
surely she saw herself as a victim of the patriarchy that hijacked her beauty and sensuality and exploited it for its own gratification .
surely i was about to meet a woman who considered herself a victim .
i was wrong .
despite her more unfortunate experiences , bettie never presented herself as a casualty of sexual abuse , and she never used that , or her religious beliefs , which were strong , to renounce the work she 'd done as a model .
moreover , she never denounced sexual expression .
" god created us naked , " she said by way of explaining her total lack of inhibition in the buff .
she purported that bondage modeling " was such fun , " even at times " hilarious , " except for when the elaborate gear became uncomfortable .
and sex itself , she assured me on many occasions , was for her , always pleasurable and joyful .
though she had at times suffered at their hands , she never expressed bitterness toward men .
i know women who are resoundingly more hostile than bettie page just for having suffered a few bad dates .
no , bettie was not going to allow anyone or anything to diminish the joy she experienced when she put that corset on ( or took it off ) and felt her full-blown sexual power .
since the publication of bettie page : life of a pin-up legend , i have published four historical novels with strong female characters .
each , in her own way , was a victim , either of the era in which she lived and its laws , or of individual abusers , or of the general abuses and oppressive nature of the culture at large .
despite the enormous consciousness-raising of the last few decades , we still see attempts to diminish today 's female powerbrokers women like hillary clinton or sarah palin by sexualizing them .
yes , in our porn-saturated society , people are still trying to shame women for -- what ?
having sexual attributes ?
at least we can point to one woman , bettie page , who would n't have it .
bettie 's obits paint a bleak picture of her later years .
but i found that , despite her trials , she had retained a zest for life and always took pleasure in memories of the work that she 'd done .
i hope that bettie is remembered for her sexual joy , and for the gleeful spirit she brought to sexual imagery , whether she was frolicking on the beach or being ball-gagged and spanked , rather than for being a victim .
a female friend of mine said this morning , " bettie page did more for sexual expression than alfred kinsey. " amen , sister .
for all the countless ( and valuable ) mountains of scholarly and feminist writing that have influenced my thinking and my portrayal of women , i still look to a lady who said it all by looking into the camera and defying anyone to tell her she was bad or wrong .
amen to you , too , bettie .
rest in peace .
legendary aquatic musical star esther williams dies at 91 .
june 6th , 2013 7 : 38pm edt .
championship swimmer - turned - legendary hollywood actress esther williams has died .
the star of such mgm movie hits as " take me out to the ball game , " "jupiter's darling" and "million dollar mermaid , " passed away in beverly hills , calif . , on thursday at the age of 91 .
the california native , who once held the record in the 100 meter freestyle , was promoted as "the girl you will dream about ! " in the film that made her a household name , "bathing beauty , " which was released shortly after d - day in 1944 , making her one of the top pin - up girls of u . s . servicemen serving in world war ii .
williams' publicist , harlan boll , confirmed her death to the associated press on thursday .
yesterday in los angeles , pin-up icon bettie page succumbed to complications from a heart attack suffered almost three weeks ago .
few women in modern history have incited such lust and reverence in men and women alike .
to the rockabilly culture , she embodied the ideal woman - voluptuous and healthy , with that leveling sneer .
she seemed to dare you to not stare at her .
her hairstyle launched a thousand girls to slice off their bangs and get out the black dye .
literally tens of thousands of women are walking around today as perfect bettie clones of all shapes and sizes .
with her nude photoshoots , the bondage angle and her defiance in the face of censorship , she was a precursor to the '70s feminist movement - '50s punk rock in heels and garters .
page has been the inspiration for dozens of songs all across the musical landscape , but it was the rockabilly guys that took to her the most ; not to mention female-fronted bands like the horrorpops or even pop 's katy perry .
even amy winehouse 's look in the beginning was a derivative of page .
she was the wholesome face of america 's kinky secret -- even if no one saw that face for half a century .
bettie page , the notorious southern gal-turned-dominatrix-turned pin-up-queen-turned born again christian , died thursday at age 85 .
the details of her death are known .
she had been hospitalized in los angeles for four weeks due to pneumonia , only to suffer from a heart attack .
far less is known of her life -- at least the last five decades of it .
in 1957 , page disappeared from the flash of the cameras and the public spotlight .
she 'd found religion , became a recluse , and lost contact with friends and associates .
but in the short time she donned panties and garters , brandished a whip and a whip-smart attitude , she was the queen of kink .
page , you see , was to erotica what elvis was to rock 'n ' roll .
no , she was n't the first pin-up .
she was n't even the best looking .
but she had " that thing " that could take what was once a dark art form into the american mainstream .
unlike elvis , though , page never got bloated .
she checked out in her prime .
she did n't even allow to have her photo taken .
she remained frozen in time .
yet , her image continues to strut its black stilettos through pop culture .
" bettie page " remains short-hand for a haircut , an image and a cult that includes everyone and everything -- from designer vivienne westwood to rockabilly hounds to hot-rodders , comic books , madonna , goths , neo-burlesque performers and devil-may-care types .
the nashville , tenn. , girl never imagined she 'd ever stir such a fuss .
" she looked so fresh and wholesome , " said bunny yeager , whose photographs of page appeared in virtually every men 's magazine in the nineteen fifties .
" she was n't trying to be seductive ; she was the girl next door . " .
one big difference between page and most neighbors , said yeager .
" she felt more comfortable in the nude than in clothes . " .
her story of unintentional notoriety began in 1950 , when she boarded a greyhound bound for manhattan .
within months , her innocent face and curvy body made her the hit of the " camera-club circuit . " .
" back then , you 'd have a bunch of guys with cameras travel by bus to private houses to photograph girls , " yeager said .
an aesthetic was born , one that mixed mundane suburbia with raw sexuality .
by 1952 , page was breaking taboos , posing with a ball strapped in her mouth , whip in hand and devilish look on face -- in photos and movies that featured stripping , spanking and faux lesbianism that straddled burlesque and pornography .
page was hardly tawdry , though , yeager said .
" she was so at ease , so wholesome . " .
the traits made a page a natural in natural settings captured by yeager , who met page in 1954 .
yeager 's shots of her in a jungle swimsuit with two cheetahs are '50s exotica par excellence : a mix of the innocence and the wild that shot through the veins of american sexuality , not to mention pin-up art , hot-rod aesthetics and tiki culture .
playboy magazine not only featured page pictorials ; it adopted her " girl next door " charm as its manifesto .
page 's good-girl-bad-deed notoriety turned her into a marilyn monroe with black , wicked hair .
too wicked for the u.s. government , which condemned photos of her taken by irving klaw as " obscene and lewd . " .
the controversy drove page from modeling and into the arms of jesus .
" one night while walking the beach she saw a neon cross on a church and walked inside , " yeager said .
she never walked out : page became born again , moved to california , and disappeared from the pages and the public eye .
but her image never stopped titillating .
you see it in rock clubs , roller derby games , fashion shows .
and you see it in an america 's own sexual conflicts -- a nation with a puritanical past and a closet full of sin .
even in death , bettie page is the missing link between the two .
pinup icon bettie page died thursday evening at a hospital in los angeles after having suffered a heart attack on dec. 2 and spending time on life support , according to her official site .
page was born on april 22 , 1923 , in nashville , tenn .
she began modeling in 1950 when she met new york city police officer and photographer jerry tibbs .
according to page 's official website , by 1951 she was appearing in the men 's magazines eyefull , wink , titter , and beauty parade .
in 1955 , hugh hefner asked page to pose in a playboy centerfold , a move that would help her seal her popularity and financial security decades later .
page ended her modeling career in 1957 after turning to christianity .
despite never posing in sexually explicit poses ( only nude photos ) , page became an unwitting sex symbol and a face of the sexual revolution in the nineteen sixties .
her popularity rose again in the early 1990s but her insecurities kept her out of the spotlight .
she wanted her fans to remember her as she was in her heyday .
adding to her bewilderment was the fact that this new popularity surge happened while page was institutionalized in a southern california mental facility after attacking a woman with a knife .
when she was released in 1992 , she found herself in the spotlight again , thanks in part to a movie called the rocketeer , which played off of pulp fiction characters of the 30s and 40s , including the image of bettie page .
in spite of her renewed popularity , page was n't receiving any royalty payments from her images .
page signed on with agent james swanson , who in turn set her up with curtis management group , who fought to get her the pay she deserved .
page came out of hiding in 2003 when she agreed to be photographed for playboy .
this was her last public photograph .
several biographies have been made , including her official biography bettie page .
the life of a pin-up legend , and a biography by richard foster called the real bettie page .
the truth about the queen of pinup .
a movie called " the notorious bettie page " was released in 2005 , which told the pinup 's story between the 1930s and the nineteen fifties .
today , women still love to emulate her old-fashioned look , specifically her long black hair with bangs and red lipstick. some people feel as if these women are unoriginal and failed to find an identity of their own , while others see this as the ultimate form of flattery .
page was survived by her sister joyce wallace of georgia , and her brother jack page , who lives in nashville , tennessee .
bettie page , the pin-up model whose seductive photographs in magazines titillated and outraged americans in the 1950s , has died , her agent said .
she was 85 .
" with deep personal sadness i must announce that my dear friend and client bettie page passed away at 6:41pm pst this evening ( 0241 gmt friday ) in a los angeles hospital , " her agent mark roesler said thursday in a statement .
page suffered a heart attack nine days earlier and never regained consciousness .
" she captured the imagination of a generation of men and women with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality , " roesler said .
page , with shoulder-length jet-black hair and bangs , combined sweetness and sexuality in a series of now-legendary posters and photographs in the 1950s , including as one of the inaugural centerfolds in hugh heffner 's new magazine playboy , which named her " the model of the century . " .
the nice-naughty image -- a sweet and beguiling smile matched with a curvacious figure and page 's propensity for burlesque films and bondage images -- proved highly combustible on the eve of america 's sexual revolution .
in the late 1950s page became one of the most photographed women in the world , and her popularity soared even as she left the limelight nearly half a century ago .
page later said she was puzzled by her effect on pop culture .
" i have no idea why i 'm the only model who has had so much fame so long after quitting work , " she told the los angeles times in 2006 .
in her old age , she refused to be photographed , preserving her mythic status .
" i want to be remembered , as i was when i was young and in my golden times ... .
i want to be remembered as the woman who changed people 's perspectives concerning nudity in its natural form . " .
born in 1923 in nashville , tennessee , bettie mae page was one of six children from an impoverished family .
after earning her university degree , she worked as a secretary and aspired to hollywood stardom but never made it as an actress .
a screen test at 20th century fox went badly , with a producer offering her a break in return for sexual favors -- she refused .
filmmaker and aviator howard hughes also doggedly pursued page but she rebuffed him as well .
" i never returned any of his calls , " she once said .
" i guess people will say i made a mistake .
but sex is part of love , and you should n't go around doing it unless you are in love .
i certainly did n't . " .
she posed for her first pin-up photos in 1947 and by the 1950s provocative pictures of her in bikinis or sexy lingerie were wildly popular , tacked up on the walls of locker rooms , student halls , offices and military barracks .
although the pictures -- which sometimes played on bondage themes -- seem tame by contemporary standards , they raised alarms in a more conservative era , prompting us senators to investigate pornography .
page was subpoenaed to appear before a senate committee headed by prominent democrat estes kefauver but in the end never had to testify .
for page , the bondage photos were harmless fun .
" but honestly , who could take any of this seriously ? " she said years later , according to her official website .
" i never understood how anyone believed those poses were sexy .
to be tied up ?
i do n't get it . " .
by 1958 , at the peak of her fame , page vanished from public view and her modeling days ended .
she became a born-again christian but struggled with marital problems and suffered from depression and violent mood swings .
in 1992 , she left a california mental hospital having been diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic .
in the 1990s , a lawyer who later became her agent , mark roesler , used page 's famous images for a lucrative licensing and merchandising deal that helped her financially and renewed her fame .
the merchandise , including a clothing line , along with a film in 2005, .
" the notorious bettie page , " helped introduce her to a new generation in the united states and abroad .
" she was reclusive and private , so without intending to be , without quite understanding how , her modeling work made her a pivotal figure in the sexual revolution that began in the 1950s , " roesler said .
friday , june 7 , 2013 .
hollywood " s mermaid esther williams dies .
champion swimmer turned top box - office draw in 40s and 50s .
esther williams , the swimming champion turned actress who starred in glittering and aquatic technicolour musicals of the 1940s and 1950s , has died .
she was 91 .
williams , whose experiences as a young swimming champion led to a career of hollywood " aqua - musicals " designed just for her , died yesterday in beverly hills , california , at the age of 91 , her spokesman said .
she died peacefully in her sleep and had been in declining health due to old age , spokesman harlan boll said .
it was the pool -- and wartime pinup pictures of her in bathing suits -- that made her popular .
williams in a bathing suit became a favourite pinup of us people in world war ii , and her popularity continued afterward .
bettie page , the raven-haired pin-up whose naughty-but-nice romps with whips , garters and high heels titillated a generation of young men in the post-war years , has died at the age of 85 after suffering a heart attack earlier this month and slipping into a coma .
her career , which some claim laid the foundations for the sexual revolution that swept america in the 1960s , started almost by accident after she discovered that posing for amateur photographers in provocative poses and risque attire made her more money than secretarial work .
ms page 's fame was set after she was adopted by irving klaw and his sister , paula , in 1951 .
the couple ran a manhattan mail order business offering dirty pictures .
later , she was featured by playboy as a centrefold , including a 1955 image of her winking under a santa hat .
" bettie was one of the magazine 's early playmates , and became an iconic figure , influencing notions of beauty and fashion , " hugh hefner , the magazine 's founder , said on hearing of her death .
" her passing is very sad . " .
ms page disappeared for decades at the end of the fifties , suffering serial broken marriages and devoting herself to christianity .
even in her twilight years she suffered bouts of depression and ill health but was rediscovered in the late nineteen eighties .
she would occasionally make public appearances to sign photographs of herself as popular interest in her suddenly took off again .
to her astonishment , ms page has recently attained cult status .
madonna , uma thurman and demi moore are among contemporary stars who have at some time adopted bettie page poses , while in 2006 a movie , the notorious bettie page , featured gretchen mol in the title role .
ms page had been admitted to hospital originally for treatment for pneumonia and was set to be released and sent home on 2 december when she suffered her heart attack .
a representative said she never recovered consciousness and died late on thursday .
" she captured the imagination of a generation of men and women with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality , " her agent , mark roesler , said yesterday .
" she is the embodiment of beauty . " .
even though she conceded to the occasional public event , she never agreed to having her photograph taken again .
" i do n't want to be photographed in my old age , " she said in 1998 .
" i feel the same way with old movie stars .
it makes me sad .
we want to remember them when they were young . " .
after her early career peaked , ms page became exhibit number one in a congressional hearing into so-called immoral activities in washington .
the controversy prompted her disappearance from public view .
it was while living in florida that she had her born-again experience and committed herself to the church and to the ministry of the rev billy graham .
in her later years , she defended the trade she pioneered .
" i never thought it was shameful .
i felt normal .
it was better than pounding a typewriter eight hours a day , which gets monotonous , " she told playboy in 1998 .
as for being featured undressed , that seemed fine too .
" god approves of nudity , " she said .
" adam and eve in the garden of eden , they were naked as jaybirds . " .
hollywood's mermaid , esther williams dies at 91 .
june 06 , 2013 .
esther williams , whose experiences as a young swimming champion led to a career of hollywood "aqua - musicals" designed just for her , died on thursday in beverly hills , california , at the age of 91 , her spokesman said .
williams , one of the biggest box - office stars of the 1940s and 1950s , died peacefully in her sleep and had been in declining health due to old age , spokesman harlan boll said .
it was the pool - and wartime pinup pictures of her in bathing suits - that made her popular .
bettie page , whose trademark raven hair and risque lingerie and bondage pin-up photos made her a cult favorite , died thursday night at a los angeles hospital - nine days after suffering a heart attack .
she was 85 .
page was born betty mae page in nashville , tennessee on april 22 , 1923 .
smart and ambitious as a teenager , she was the salutatorian of her high school graduation class and was voted " most likely to succeed . " .
she earned a scholarship to attend george peabody college , where she studied acting .
page 's famous pin-up days lasted from 1951-1957 , where her slinky , curvy and scantily-clad or nude body graced magazines including wink , beauty parade , twitter and playboy .
the heff crowned page playmate of the month in january of 1955 .
the same year she was also named , " miss pinup girl of the world . " .
her photo and film work often depicted page in pin-up , bondage or sadomasochistic themes , including the iconic ( and highest selling ) images of the model shown gagged and bound in a web of ropes from the leopard bikini bound film .
heffner told the ap on thursday , " i think that she was a remarkable lady , an iconic figure in pop culture who influenced sexuality , taste in fashion , someone who had a tremendous impact on our society ... .
she was a very dear person . " .
page married twice ; the first marriage to navy man billy neal lasted from 1943 to 1947 , and her second to armond walterson in 1958 to 1963 .
after the collapse of her second marriage , she suffered a nervous breakdown and soon after became a born-again christian .
after attending bible school , she wanted to serve as a missionary but was turned down because she had been divorced .
instead , she worked full-time for evangelist billy graham 's ministry .
bettie 's life and photos enjoyed a revival of interest in 1976 with the publishing of the book , a nostalgic look at bettie page .
page was also celebrated in the 2006 hbo movie , the notorious bettie page , starring gretchen mol .
esther williams , who swam to stardom in the 1940's , dies at 91 .
june 6 , 2013 11 : 34pm .
pinup girl williams was the star of wwii - era "aquatic musicals" and helped make the sport of synchronized swimming popular .
bettie page , the 1950s pin-up model who helped set the stage for the 1960s sexual revolution , has died .
she was 85 .
her agent , mark roesler , said page died yesterday at a los angeles hospital after suffering a heart attack on december 2 .
she never regained consciousness .
page , who became religious and suffered depression in later life , spending years in a mental institution , inspired the 2005 film the notorious bettie page .
she became a cult figure for magazine photographs of her bikinis and see-through lingerie , which were tacked on walls across the us .
after resurfacing in the 1990s , she occasionally granted interviews but refused to allow her picture to be taken .
" i do n't want to be photographed in my old age , " she said in 1998 .
" i feel the same way with old movie stars ... .
it makes me sad .
we want to remember them when they were young . " .
her photos included a centrefold in the january 1955 issue of the then fledgling playboy magazine , as well as controversial sadomasochistic poses .
the latter helped contribute to her mysterious disappearance from the public eye , which lasted for decades and included years during which she battled mental illness and became a born-again christian .
playboy founder hugh hefner said .
" she was a remarkable lady , an iconic figure in pop culture who influenced sexuality , taste in fashion , someone who had a tremendous impact on our society .
she was a very dear person . " .
roesler said page had been in hospital for three weeks with pneumonia and was about to be released when she suffered the heart attack on december 2 .
her career began in october 1950 when she took a break from her job as a secretary in a new york office to take a walk along the beach at coney island .
an amateur photographer named jerry tibbs admired the 27-year-old 's firm , curvy body and asked her to pose .
looking back on the career that followed , she told playboy in 1998 .
" i never thought it was shameful .
i felt normal .
it 's just that it was much better than pounding a typewriter eight hours a day . " .
nudity did n't bother her , she said , explaining .
" god approves of nudity .
adam and eve in the garden of eden , they were naked as jaybirds . " .
they cut her hair into the dark bangs that became her signature and posed her in spiked heels and little else .
she was photographed with a whip in her hand , and in one session she was spreadeagled between two trees , her feet dangling .
" i thought my arms and legs would come out of their sockets , " she said later .
moralists denounced the photos as perversion , and senator estes kefauver of tennessee , page 's home state , launched a congressional investigation .
page quickly retreated from public view , later saying she was hounded by federal agents who waved her nude photos in her face .
and she said she believed that , at 34 , her days as " the girl with the perfect figure " were nearly over .
she moved to florida in 1957 and married a much younger man , after an early marriage to her high school sweetheart had ended in divorce .
her second marriage also failed , as did a third , and she suffered a nervous breakdown .
born on april 22 , 1923 , in nashville , tennessee , page said she grew up in a family so poor " we were lucky to get an orange in our christmas stockings " .
esther williams - esther williams : "million dollar mermaid" swimmer and actress dies aged 91 .
07 june 2013 .
golden girl of screen and pool , esther williams , has died peacefully in her sleep aged 91 .
it has been confirmed by publicist harlan boll that the 1940s hollywood actress and record - setting swimmer , esther williams , died on 6th june in her sleep .
stunning williams quickly achieved movie success and pin - up status , due to her swimmer's physique being regularly snapped in bathing suits .
famous 1950s pin up star betty page has died in los angeles , aged 85 .
the iconic model known for her provocative poses was credited for helping to pave the way for the sexual revolution of the nineteen sixties .
she was admitted to hospital last month suffering from pnuemonia , and last week suffered a heart attack and never regained consciousness .
her agent mark roesler siad : " with deep personal sadness i must announce that my dear friend and client bettie page passed away at 18:41 this evening ( 02:41 gmt friday ) in a los angeles hospital " .
" she captured the imagination of a generation with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality ... .
she is the embodiment of beauty " .
hugh hefner was reported as saying about page .
" i think that she was a remarkable lady , an iconic figure in pop culture who influenced sexuality , taste in fashion , someone who had a tremendous impact on our society " .
page was married three times but had no children .
actress esther williams dies at 91 .
10 : 10 am pdt 6 / 6 / 2013 .
the champion swimmer starred in such films as "bathing beauty , " "take me out to the ball game" and "million dollar mermaid . " .
actress and champion swimmer esther williams , who showcased a combination of glamour and athleticism by starring in several spectacular and splashy mgm musicals of the 1940s and '50s , has died .
she was 91 .
williams died peacefully in her sleep thursday in beverly hills , family spokesman harlan boll announced .
legendary pinup queen bettie page died of pneumonia at the age of 85 in a los angeles , california , hospital thursday , a week after suffering a heart attack , according to her agent .
pinup queen bettie page was credited with helping to usher in the sexual revolution .
" she captured the imagination of a generation of men and women with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality , " said agent mark roesler in a written statement .
" she is the embodiment of beauty . " .
page , said to be one of the most photographed people of the past century , became a recluse in recent decades .
yet , her images continued to be used around the world to market bettie page action figures , clothing lines and other merchandise .
" her popularity as an underground , guilty pleasures phenomenon has continued to soar despite the fact that the reclusive page disappeared almost a half century ago , leading many to believe that one of the most photographed individuals of the 20th century was already dead . " .
roesler said .
the web site , bettiepage.com , logs about 20 million hits a month , roesler said .
a tvguide.com poll recently placed bettie page as the " ultimate sex goddess , " outscoring others such as marilyn monroe .
page was born to a poor family in tennessee on april 22 , 1923 .
while her birth certificate spelled her name " betty , " she changed the spelling later in life to " bettie . " .
at a time when few women pursued a college education , page earned a bachelor of arts degree in education from peabody college in tennessee in 1944 , according to her official biography .
her teaching career , however , was hampered by her looks , she said .
" i could n't control my students , especially the boys , " she is quoted as saying .
after her modeling career ended , page returned to peabody college to work on a master 's degree , the bio said .
her southern drawl and a refusal to sleep with a hollywood producer hampered her acting career , according to her bio .
" i did n't like his looks , " page said .
" i would n't have gone to bed with him anyway .
he was a creep .
he drove off in his big car and scolded me, .
'you 'll be sorry . ' .
i was n't . " .
page said she regretted not accepting studio boss jack warner 's offer of another screen-test , but it came while she was trying to save her marriage to her first husband , billy neal .
her modeling breakthrough began after she divorced neal in 1947 when she met a police officer whose hobby was photography .
he suggested the black bangs , which became her trademark , her bio said .
not long after , her images were everywhere , gracing magazine covers and locker pin-ups .
page wore nothing but a santa hat in playboy 's january 1955 centerfold .
playboy founder hugh hefner said her appearance in his magazine 's first year was a milestone .
" she became , in time , an american icon , her winning smile and effervescent personality apparent in every pose , " hefner said .
" a kinky connection was added by irving klaw 's spanking , fetish and bondage photos , which became part of the bettie page mystique , " hefner said .
" they were playful parodies that are now perceived as the early inspiration for madonna 's excursions into the realm of sexual perversion . " .
perhaps the most memorable photos of page were her bondage poses , which she said were all pretend .
" i never understood how anyone believed those poses were sexy , " she later said .
" to be tied up ?
i do n't get it . " .
" she was a remarkable woman , truly someone that changed the social norms , not only here in this country , but also around the world , " roesler said .
" while jackie robinson was changing the racial attitudes , bettie page was changing our attitudes on sex .
she became a james dean type of 'rebel ' figure as she allowed people to be less inhibited and look at sex in a different way . " .
saucy photos of paige in skimpy clothing or none at all helped to lead the way for the sexual revolution of the nineteen sixties .
page suddenly disappeared from the scene in 1958 .
it was only decades later revealed that she re-emerged to explain that she underwent a religious conversion and moved to florida .
her life took a dark turn starting in 1978 after her third marriage failed , roesler said .
page went through " some mental instability , violent mood swings , and serious trouble with the law " and was eventually diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic , according to her bio .
page reappeared in public in december 2003 for playboy 's 50th anniversary party , where she made a grand entrance with anna nicole smith .
it was the only time in the past 50 years that page allowed her photograph to be taken , roesler said .
a private funeral service is planned for tuesday .
page will buried at westwood cemetery in los angeles , just a few feet away from monroe .
june 06 , 2013 .
esther williams , swimming star , dies at 91 .
bettie page , the 1950s pinup girl whose natural looks and risque fetish poses triggered a cult following four decades after she turned her back on modeling , has died .
she was 85 .
page died late yesterday in a los angeles hospital after suffering a heart attack more than a week ago , her agent mark roesler said in a statement .
" she captured the imagination of a generation of men and women with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality , " said roesler .
" she is the embodiment of beauty . " .
the busty " dark angel " from tennessee was one of the most- photographed women of her era , striking a chord with men 's camera clubs and sparking outrage in congress for her nude snapshots .
page 's image , complete with black hair bangs and naughty smile , appeared on magazine covers , playing cards , wallpaper and comic books in the 1990s , inspiring retrospective tributes from celebrities such as madonna , demi moore and uma thurman .
the college-educated beauty queen who disappeared from the public eye after 1957 was unaware of her renewed popularity until " entertainment tonight " broadcast a television segment about her almost 40 years later .
she had disowned her glamour lifestyle after becoming a born-again christian in 1959 , and later battled mental illness in florida and california .
" bettie page is the last great icon of the 1950s , " james swanson , co-author of " bettie page .
the life of a pinup legend , " said in a 1996 interview with nbc 's real life program .
" like james dean and marilyn monroe , she brought something modern to the era .
she 's like the girl next door , the greatest american pin-up and that 's why she 's eternal. " .
early years .
bettie mae page was born on april 22 , 1923 , in nashville , tennessee .
the second of six children , she helped raise her younger siblings while the family traveled around the u.s. in search of work .
page 's mother placed her daughters in an orphanage after divorcing her husband , who was sentenced to two years in an atlanta penitentiary for stealing a policeman 's car .
at the age of 10 , page began to mimic actresses and perform songs for the other girls at the orphanage before her mother , who worked as a hairdresser during the day and in a laundry at night , reclaimed her children after a year .
page took refuge from her traumatic family life in local community centers , where she learned to cook , sew and study hard enough to top her class at high school .
she was a member of the drama club , helped edit the school newspaper and was voted " the most likely to succeed . " .
she won a $ 100 scholarship to peabody college in nashville , where she graduated with a bachelor of arts degree in education .
three husbands .
in february 1943 , she married billy neal , the first of her three husbands , and moved to san francisco , where she had her first modeling assignment for a local furrier .
while neal served in the mariana islands during world war ii , page lived in nashville , miami and port au prince , haiti .
in 1947 , she filed for divorce and moved to new york .
three years later while walking on coney island , she met police officer jerry tibbs who had an interest in photography and assembled page 's first portfolio .
tibbs introduced her to camera clubs , men 's hobbyist groups that sometimes acted as a front for erotic photography , and page 's career took off .
she then appeared in publisher robert harrison 's girlie magazines wink , flirt and beauty parade .
in january 1955 , she was the centerfold model in hugh hefner 's fledgling playboy magazine , one month before actress jayne mansfield appeared as the publication 's playmate .
" she had a saucy innocence that is both contemporary and provocative , and also nostalgic , " hefner said .
media mogul .
page , who claimed she ignored media mogul howard hughes 's request for a screen test in 1955 because she did n't want to sleep with him , also studied acting under herbert berghoff at sea cliff summer theater on long island .
the apprenticeship helped her gain parts in new york stage productions and on television , once appearing on " the jackie gleason show . " .
some of her most celebrated snapshots were taken in 1954 during a session with photographer bunny yeager at the africa usa wildlife park in boca raton , florida .
they included nude poses with two cheetahs and scenes in a leopard-patterned jungle outfit that she made herself .
her " dark angel " image stemmed from bondage and fetish sessions for irving klaw 's movie star news .
klaw , who paid $ 80 for four hours ' work at his studio in greenwich village , new york , required sadomasochistic shots to meet the demand of high- profile , educated clients .
his sister paula created the sets and helped page develop the fetish image .
'very sweet ' .
" paula was one of the nicest women i 've ever known in my life , " page said .
" only paula was allowed to tie us up .
she was very gentle , caring and considerate .
she never tied any ropes too tight .
she was very sweet . " .
a congressional investigation initiated by tennessee senator estes kefauver in 1955 called page as a witness and put klaw out of business , though he had no case to answer because his models were never nude .
the evidence of obscenity had included more- explicit poses that page had done for camera clubs after a drinking session one night at a party .
the congressional probe is said to have contributed to her decision to give up modeling .
throughout the 1960s , page attended bible schools in los angeles , chicago and oregon , helping teenage mothers and visiting jails .
her breakdown in 1972 after divorcing third husband harry lear led to four months ' treatment in florida 's jackson memorial hospital and 20 months in patton state hospital in san bernardino , california .
she also had numerous run-ins with the law , including a charge of assault with a deadly weapon after brandishing a knife at her landlady who did n't provide page with rent receipts .
pop-culture revival .
page 's pop-culture revival emanated from artwork by robert blue and olivia de berardinis , who drew on her fantasy and fetish work .
david stevens also featured page in " the rocketeer " comics from the early 1980s , prompting an avalanche of similar publications based on her persona .
in later years , she lived in california and collected royalties from her work as a model after signing with curtis management group .
in 2005 , time warner inc. and hbo films released " the notorious bettie page , " a feature film starring gretchen mol as page .
page avoided the camera lens after her modeling years , though she was photographed with hefner at playboy 's 50th anniversary celebration in 2003 .
" i want people to remember me as i was , " she said in a playboy interview in 1998 .
page was divorced three times and had no children .
bettie page , one of entertainment 's original sex kittens , the 1950s pin-up queen who many credit with having paved the way for the sexual revolution of the following decade , passed away thursday , december 11 , at age 85 .
bettie page died thursday of pneumonia at a los angeles area hospital , longtime agent mark roesler said .
she had suffered a heart attack earlier in december and never regained consciousness .
he said he and page 's family agreed to take her off life support .
roesler described her as " the embodiment of beauty , " and enthused that she " captured the imagination of a generation of men and women with her free spirit and unabashed sensuality . " .
bettie page 's signature raven-black long hair , her bangs , the red lipstick , her full , seductively rounded body and her provocative poses made her into a bona fide pin-up queen in the nineteen fifties .
her fame endured throughout the decades , even after she retreated from the spotlight and struggled with mental illness , moved around the country and became a born-again christian .
she was born betty mae page on april 22 , 1923 in nashville , tennessee , in an impoverished family with six children .
despite being confronted with an abusive father who eventually went to prison and having to live in orphanages at times , page grew up a great fan of hollywood movies and was successful in school , as salutatorian of her high school graduating class .
her classmates voted her " most likely to succeed . " .
she received an arts degree with peabody college in nashville and started modeling in the 1940s after moving to san francisco with her first husband .
they divorced in 1947 and page continued her modeling work in new york .
as chance would have it , photos from a shoot with miami photographer bunny yeager ended up in the pages of playboy .
this would forever change page 's life , as she became on of the two-year-old magazine 's first centerfolds in the january 1955 issue .
kneeling before a christmas tree , wearing a santa hat and a playful wink ( and that 's all ) and holding a christmas tree ornament , playboy founder hugh hefner described the layout as " a milestone in the history of the magazine . " .
a few years later , page modeled in bondage and sadomasochistic poses .
this caused great controversy , as the photographs were criticized by some as perversion and a congressional investigation was launched into pornography .
by the late 1950s , bettie page had virtually disappeared from the public eye , having retreated to focus on her own personal life .
she became a born-again christian and worked for billy graham 's ministry , among others .
she married two more times yet both unions failed .
beginning with the 1970s , she battled mental illness and was diagnosed as paranoid schizophrenic .
during her retreat from the spotlight , page was completely oblivious of the fascination she had ignited in the public .
she made a comeback almost two decades later , signing memorabilia at conventions and occasionally granted interviews .
she refused to have her photograph taken .
page had no children .
a private funeral service will be held tuesday , dec. 16 , at westwood memorial cemetery .
esther williams dead : technicolor star dies at age 91 .
06 / 06 / 13 07 : 05 pm et edt .
the self - described "million dollar mermaid , " whose wholesome beauty , shapely figure and aquatic skills launched an entire genre of movies -- the technicolor "aqua musicals" -- died thursday at 91 .
she also was a favorite swimsuit pinup for gi's in world war ii , and a refreshing presence among mgm's stellar gallery -- warm , breezy , with a frankness and self - deprecating humor that delighted interviewers .
as news of her death spread thursday , pinup shots of her circulated on twitter .
lamas' son , actor lorenzo lamas , tweeted thursday : "my stepmom esther williams passed peacefully this morning .
many people were shocked and saddened to learn that beloved pin-up icon bettie page passed away yesterday in los angeles after lingering in a coma for a week following a heart attack .
she was 85 .
personally , i was n't surprised because i thought she died several years ago .
page is best known by her fans for her risque bondage films and pictures , and her infamous sense of style , which continues to influence everyone from mortician goth girls to rockabilly cholas in my high school to dita von teese , who 's complete act is utterly ripped off from her .
to me , she 'll always be the kooky , naive christian portrayed by gretchen mol in the notorious bettie page .
but more than that , she was trailblazer for sexy unconventional women everywhere .
without her , the suicide girls would n't exist , although it 's questionable whether that 's a real loss .
i chose the above picture to memorialize her because everyone loves monkeys .
rip bettie !
i 'll drink a martini and listen to a cramps song in your memory tonight .
esther williams , swimming champion , actress , pin - up icon dies ; fans and family mourn .
june 6 , 2013 3 : 05 pm edt .
esther williams , swimming champion , actress , and pin - up icon , has died .
she was 91 .
williams , 91 , passed away early thursday in her sleep , according to her publicist .
throughout wwii , she was a popular pinup for gis , and her personality and self - deprecating wit kept her popular afterwards .
fans and family mourn her passing , but williams had a long , full life .
while apple 's final keynote address at the annual macworld convention in san francisco did n't contain the iphone-related announcements many had hoped for , we were given all of the details on apple 's latest revamp to their largest and most powerful macbook pro .
apple 's senior vice president of worldwide product marketing , philip schiller , delivered the address and detailed the major revisions to the 17 " macbook pro .
first off , the 17 " macbook pro will be , as apple puts it , " the world 's thinnest and lightest 17-inch notebook , " coming in at less than an inch thick ( 0.98 " to be precise ) and with an overall weight of 6.6 pounds .
like it 's smaller siblings that were given a facelift back in october , the new 17 " macbook pro will utilize an aluminum unibody design that brings the behemoth notebook into the new , " greener " future .
the new 17 " macbook pro achieves epeat gold status that identifies the device as an environmentally responsible solution .
as part of its epeat gold status , the new 17 " model is reportedly free of many of the harmful toxins found in comparable notebooks that have adverse effects on the environment during disposal .
as part of the new macbook family , the 17 " macbook pro incorporates an arsenic and mercury-free glass led-backlit display .
but beyond the environmental improvements , the biggest news regarding the latest macbook pro is its revolutionary battery system .
through the use of advanced chemistry , intelligent monitoring , adaptive charging technology , and a multi-cell design that apple claims achieves three times the industry standard in battery life .
the new battery system will deliver eight hours on a single charge and can be recharged up to 1,000 times in a single lifespan .
on the performance side , the 17 " macbook pro has similar performance specs to previous macbook pro models .
the processor , memory , and drive specs on the new model are as follows .
the new model incorporates all of the usual macbook pro luxuries , such as built-in isight , three usb ports , mini-display port output , a firewire 800 port , and expresscard/34 support .
similar to the other macbook models , the trackpad has been updated to incorporate apple 's new multi-touch gestures and buttonless design .
the new 17 " macbook pro will come in one default configuration with a msrp of $ 2,799 , however , users will be able to upgrade their notebook with apple 's built-to-order program .
optional upgrades include a 8gbs of ddr3 memory , a 320gb hard drive , a 128gb or 256gb solid state drive , and various display output alternatives .
if the glass led-backlit display causes too much glare for you , apple also offers an anti-glare display on the 17 " macbook pro for $ 50 extra .
the new 17 " macbook pro will be shipping at the end of this month .
new 13 - inch , 15 - inch macbook pro spec upgrade : ivy bridge , usb 3 [ wwdc12 ] .
( 10 : 27 am pdt , jun 11th 2012 ) .
following a refresh to the macbook air lineup , apple's phil schiller unveiled a revamped macbook pro today at wwdc12 .
the updated machine boasts intel ivy bridge 2 . 7ghz ( turbo boosted up to 3 . 7ghz ) , usb 3 . 0 , nvidia geforce gt 650m graphics , and 7 hours of battery life .
the 13 - inch macbook pro spec upgrade costs $1199 , while the 15 - inch will sell for $1499 .
the 15 - inch is offered in $1799 and $2199 models with beefier quad - core chips .
the outwards design of these upgraded macbook pros have stayed the same .
this isn't the revolutionary macbook pro the rumor mill suggested , but that's because this notebook isn't the only laptop apple announced for the macbook pro lineup today .
there's also a revolutionary new macbook pro with a thinner profile and retina display .
apple unveils latest macbook pros , ios 6 for iphone and ipad .
june 11 , 2012 at 12 : 36 pm et .
after a witty intro by siri herself , apple ceo tim cook took the stage in san francisco to welcome developers and announce new stuff .
cook had a lot to say about the success of the app program , with 30 billion downloads of 650 , 000 distinct apps worldwide .
once cook rattled off the specs , they played a video about the success of apps , from one that a blind man built to help seeing - impaired people get around , to the successful airbnb , a place for couch surfers to find homes away from home , to a speech therapy tool for ipad that's helping a little girl learn how to communicate .
it may be marketing , but parts are truly touching .
needless to say , the developers applauded profusely .
"we would like to thank everyone in the developer community for the incredible apps that you've done for us , " says cook .
new macbooks .
next , global marketing vp phil schiller announced updates to the macbook line .
the macbook air gets 3rd - gen core chips , up to 2ghz dual - core i7 .
it also gets storage up to 512 gb flash storage , with 2x read speed .
and it gets usb 3 . 0 and a 720p camera .
the new models start shipping today .
the 13 - inch and 15 - inch macbook pros get ivy bridge processors , a new - generation geforce graphics card and usb 3 . 0 , while the prices stay the same .
but the big news is the "next generation" macbook pro , which is about as thin as a macbook air , with a 15 - inch "retina display" of 2880 x 1800 pixels .
it's ridiculously gorgeous and thin .
but it's not just about the display and thinness .
there's a quad - core i7 chip up to 2 . 7ghz ; up to 16gb of ram ; the new geforce kepler graphics and 768gb of internal flash storage .
yow !
battery life sounds right : 7 hours on a charge , with 30 days of standby .
and as for ports : sd , hdmi , usb 3 , a new magsafe 2 and two thunderbolts ports .
there is no optical drive .
read into that what you will , but clearly apple will not be supporting blu - ray anytime soon ( or ever ) .
adobe , autodesk and others are developing apps to work with the new retina display .
( aside to the creative people : hooray for photoshop being in sync with mac development ! ) .
os x 10 . 8 mountain lion .
after the pulse - racing macbook unveiling , apple execs took things down a notch to discuss features of os x 10 . 8 , mountain lion , including drill - down on stuff that has already been revealed .
for a quick look at those features , have a look here .
some awesome ones include messages , dictation , sharing and airplay mirroring , which lets you send up to 1080p video from mac to apple tv .
the new safari is great : you can click a cloud icon to see tabs open on other devices such as ipads and iphones , and if you zoom out , each tab becomes a thumbnail , so you can easily get to the tab you want .
mountain lion will launch next month , and will cost $19 . 99 .
we've got more details on mountain lion's upcoming release here .
ios 6 for iphone and ipad .
following mountain lion , svp of ios software scott forstall took the stage to unveil ios 6 , something that had been somewhat confirmed , but without any details .
first on his agenda was siri : "in eight months , siri has been studying up and learning a lot , " says forstall .
now , in ios 6 , you can ask score of last giants game , even batting average of a given player , team standings .
impressive ( if it works in my house ) .
forstall : "who is taller , lebron or kobe ? " .
siri : "lebron james appears to be slightly taller . " .
in addition to sports , siri does more with restaurant details , and is partnered with yelp for reviews and opentable for reservations .
yes , you can make dinner reservations with siri .
good news for a food person like myself .
for movies , rotten tomatoes reviews are integrated , and you can tap inside siri to watch trailers .
best of all , siri can now launch apps .
new driving mode for siri : "eyes free , " says forstall .
button on steering wheel of some car manufacturers including gm , toyota , honda , land rover , audi , mercedes benz and bmw .
siri will also speak 15 languages including korean , italian , mandarin and cantonese .
facebook integration is next .
integrated within ios 6 ( photos , calendars , contacts , etc . ) and even the app store and itunes , where you can like stuff , instead of pinging it like nobody does now .
forstall says facebook is coming to mac os , too , though it wasn't mentioned earlier .
apple is building its own mapping service , complete with fresh maps of the whole globe , plus built - in turn - by - turn navigation , so you don't need a third - party app anymore .
there's also crowd - sourced traffic data ( anonymously gathered , says apple ) tied into the service , so you have realistic etas and smart routing .
there's also a beautiful new photo mapping feature called "flyover" which lets you view major landmarks in 3 - d .
not sure if they've got your house in there , but it's gorgeous to look upon .
more ios 6 stuff , in rapid succession .
"reply with message" - gives you the option to send canned messages to callers .
also a "remind me later" feature with time and geo - tagged reminders for ignored calls .
"do not disturb" - phone won't bother you with calls and alerts , includes plenty of control ( no calls at all or just calls from favorites , etc ) .
facetime enabled over cellular with ios 6 .
apple is unifying phone numbers and apple ids - - you can now answer calls on ipad or mac - - it's huge news but apt to depress the mobile carriers .
in mobile safari , there's now photo updating , and there's now more cross - talk between apps and browser .
shared photo stream - - think instagramm style comments and integration with mac , iphone , apple tv etc .
vip contacts and a "flagged" mailbox for the most important people in your life .
insert photos and video into mail more easily .
single app mode and guided access let you lock people into one app , for parental control , education , testing , museum tours , etc .
forstall introduced a whole new app , too , called passbook .
codes for boarding passes ( united , amtrak ) , store cards ( starbucks , target ) , tickets ( fandango , sf giants ) , reservations ( w hotels ) , etc . are all collected in one app .
when you visit the store or venue , the app automatically pulls up the right card .
and when you're done with a given card , there's a cute shredding animation .
after weeks of speculation about what would be introduced at macworld , apple inc. took the wraps off of updated itunes and ilife software and unveiled a 17-inch macbook pro on tuesday .
the cupertino , calif.-based company ( nasdaq : aapl ) said itunes songs will now have three-tiered pricing : 69 cents , 99 cents and $ 1.29 , depending on how new or desirable the songs are judged to be .
all songs offered on itunes plus will be free of digital rights management software .
users of the popular itunes service will now also be able to download music over wifi and 3g networks on the iphone .
apple claims that its new macbook pro is the thinnest and lightest 17-inch notebook computer available .
its new battery can run for up to eight hours on a charge and can be rechagred up to 1,000 times , the company said .
the new notebook is expected to ship in late january with a price tag of $ 2,799 for the base model that will have 4 gigabytes of ram and a 320 gigabyte hard drive .
the new version of ilife includes changes to its photo , movie and music software .
the updated iphoto lets users tag photos according to who is in them or where they were taken .
the places feature either picks up the tag from a camera 's gps system or the information can be put in manually .
the new iphoto software also supports photos tagging at social networking sites facebook and flickr .
the second revamped ilife offering unveiled at apple 's keynote tuesday morning was a new version of imovie , which allows new drag-and-drop editing features , video stabilization , built-in themes and animated travel maps .
ilife 's new version of garageband music software adds hd video tutorials for guitar and piano taught by pop stars including sting and norah jones .
apple also rolled out an updated version of iwork that includes a new online service that lets users share documents over the web .
delivering the keynote address at the macworld trade show was apple 's top marketing executive , philip schiller , who spoke in the place of ceo steve jobs .
on monday jobs ended weeks of new speculation about his health with an open letter saying that he has a hormonal imbalance that has caused him to lose weight .
last month apple said jobs would n't be making his highly-anticipated annual appearance at the show , a report that renewed rumors about his health that surfaced when he appeared gaunt earlier in the year .
apple unveils new macbook pro with ivy bridge at wwdc .
posted jun 11th , 2012 at 1 : 23 pm .
apple is certainly making wwdc a hardware conference this year - - it just unveiled a refresh of the existing macbook pro running intel's newer ivy bridge processors on the san francisco gathering's opening day .
the 13 - and 15 - inch portables run up to 2 . 7ghz quad core i7s ( turbo up to 3 . 7ghz ) , carry up to 8gb of ram and have geforce gt 650m - based graphics 60 percent faster than the previous generation .
like the new macbook air , they tout usb 3 . 0 ports .
if you're more comfortable with apple's conventional macbook pro design than the new variety , apple will ask $1 , 099 for the base 13 - inch version and $1 , 799 for a 15 - inch version , with an upgraded 15 - inch model going for $2 , 199 .
all of them are shipping today - - we're not seeing any mention of an updated 17 - inch version , so it may have been cast aside .
apple 's big announcement at macworld yesterday was not a new imac , mini or netbook , all of which had been rumoured , but a battery .
the firm announced a widely expected refresh of its 17in macbook pro , with a battery that the firm said will offer eight hours of operation , but which is not removable from the case .
the battery , based on conventional lithium polymer technology commonly found in laptops and mobile phones , has been integrated into the case to make the device thinner while increasing battery life , according to apple senior vice president of marketing phil schiller .
apple has also introduced a separate chip that monitors the power used by each cell and adjusts the charging current accordingly , which the firm says extends the life of the battery .
the macworld crowd did not let out its characteristic whoops of excitement when schiller announced the battery , even when he said that its capacity for 1,000 full recharges - three times the average achieved by other notebooks - would give the average battery a five-year life .
however , one mac customer from the show floor was sceptical of the claims .
" apple says five years , but for some it might only be two or three , " he said .
" look at the way guys like us travel . " .
apple will offer a p135 take-back and replacement service for the battery .
the keynote was decidedly low-key this year , being apple 's last following a decision to pull out from the idg-run show .
other than the macbook pro , the company concentrated on enhancements to its iwork package , including a beta version of iwork.com .
the service lets users share iwork files , including those in microsoft office format , and to comment on each other 's work .
glaringly absent at macworld were refreshes of the now ageing mac mini and the imac desktop lines .
new macbook air models officially unveiled with ivy bridge upgrade .
as rumored , new 11 - inch and 13 - inch macbook air models have just been officially announced by apple at wwdc 2012 .
unsurprisingly , apple is keeping pace with competitors with the addition of ivy bridge to its slimmest line of laptops .
the 11 - inch models will start at $999 with a 1 . 7ghz dual - core intel core i5 processor , 4gb ram , integrated intel hd 4000 graphics , 64gb flash storage , and 5 hours of battery life , with a higher - tier model for $1099 that contains 128gb of flash storage .
the 13 - inch models start at $1 , 199 and include the same 1440 x 900 display as the previous models , along with a 1 . 8ghz dual - core i5 processor , 4gb of ram , the same graphics as the 11 - inch model , and 128gb of storage .
$1499 will get you an extra 256gb of storage ; specs are the same otherwise .
apple has also opted to include a pair of usb 3 . 0 ports in its new air lineup .
apple says the new 11 - inch and 13 - inch macbook air models are available now .
apple on tuesday launched a refresh of the 17-inch macbook pro , giving the company 's largest laptop an eight-hour battery life , a faster intel ( nsdq : intc ) processor , and better graphics capabilities .
the upgraded product was the only hardware announcement at the opening macworld keynote , which was delivered by phil schiller , senior vp for worldwide product marketing at apple .
breaking with tradition , the company announced late last month that co-founder and chief executive steve jobs would not kick off the trade show .
in addition , apple stunned the industry by saying this year would be its last appearance at macworld .
the absence of jobs led many analysts to believe that apple would not make any major product announcements , and the prediction turned out to be correct , particularly in terms of hardware .
the macbook was the only apple computer to get an upgrade , which is sure to disappoint fans who had also hoped for updates to the company 's mac mini and apple tv .
apple observers had expected the refresh of the 17-inch macbook pro , given that it was left out of apple 's notebook event in october , when the company launched updates of the 15-inch and 13.3-inch systems .
but while some analysts said the larger laptop could get a big speed boost with an intel quad-core processor , apple stuck with an intel dual-core chip , which has been upgraded to a 2.66-ghz core 2 duo processor with 6 mb of on-chip l2 cache .
buyers also have the option of a 2.93-ghz core 2 duo processor .
but the most innovative feature in the upgrade is a new battery that apple claims will last up to eight hours on a single charge and can be recharged up to 1,000 times , which means up to a five-year lifespan .
rivalsdell ( dell ) and hewlett-packard ( nyse : hpq ) last year introduced laptops with similar battery life on a single charge .
the apple battery achieves its better performance by using custom-designed lithium-polymer cells that are 40 % larger than the previous generation .
however , to fit the battery in the system , apple has made it nonremovable , which may turn off some potential buyers .
because of the extended lifespan of the battery , apple says the macbook is more environmentally friendly than the previous generation , since the power supply does n't have to be replaced so often .
the notebook is less than an inch thick , weighs 6.6 pounds , and features a light-emitting diode screen with a $ 50 anti-glare option .
in addition , the system comes with an nvidia geforce 9400m integrated graphics processor and a discrete nvidia 9600m gt processor .
switching to the latter gives better graphics performance at the expense of about an hour of battery life .
apple unveils new macbook pro with ivy bridge at wwdc .
? apple is certainly making wwdc a hardware conference this year - - it just unveiled a new macbook pro running intel's newer ivy bridge processors on the san francisco gathering's opening day . ?
i have used a broken mouse on my macbook pro for &gt; 6 months in anticipation of this . . . .
now if that pesky store . apple . com would just come back online !
with a 17-inch macbook pro update unveiled at today 's macworld 2009 keynote , apple has finally brought an entire line of mac portables into view .
the largest member of the macbook family now comes with a faster front-side bus and processor , nvidia graphics , displayport interconnect with hdcp content protection , led-backlit glossy display , and all of it wrapped up inside apple 's unibody aluminum enclosure with glass trackpad .
for the first time ever , apple is also offering a 256gb sdd upgrade , while creative pros get to order anti-glare display version of the computer .
but everybody was expecting this .
what was never dreamed of is eight hours of battery life that powers this beast - up from five hours before .
the added juice comes from a 40 % larger battery and a chip inside that " talks " to each cell and adjusts the current accordingly .
this results in three times the number of charges and lifespan of the industry standard .
the rumor mill was way off this year when it predicted a $ 600 mac netbook or iphone nano as apple 's " one more thing " for macworld 2009 .
instead , apple 's vice president of worldwide marketing phil schiller , appointed by steve jobs to deliver the keynote presentation in his absence , saved the new 17-inch macbook pro as the company 's last surprise .
apple calls the 17-inch macbook pro the " world 's lightest and thinnest 17-inch notebook , " and it is n't exaggerating .
the computer is just 0.98-inches thin and weighs 6.6 pounds. the 17-inch macbook pro represents a marriage of all the technologies used to build other unibody macbooks and a large 17-inch display for applications that require lots of screen real estate , like video editing and graphics design on-the-go .
the machine features led-backlit glossy display that lights up instantly when the lid is open , unlike warm up time required for the lcd cells .
it also features built-in isight camera and 1920 x 1200 resolution - that 's 78 percent more pixels than the 15-inch macbook pro and enough to display full 1080p hd content with room to spare .
in addition , it has a 700:1 contrast ratio and 60 % greater color gamut .
as was expected , the machine now relies exclusively on mini displayport interconnect with hdcp copy protection technology , and it comes with glass trackpad and illuminated keyboard , all wrapped in a sturdy unibody alluminum enclosure .
the new 17-inch macbook pro includes an ultra-thin , widescreen glossy 1920 x 1200 display with 78 % more pixels than the 15-inch macbook pro and a 60 % greater color gamut that delivers desktop-quality color in a notebook .
the led-backlit display has brilliant instant-on performance , uses up to 30 % less energy and eliminates the mercury found in industry standard fluorescent tube backlights .
a faster 1066 mhz front-side bus and newer generation of intel core 2 duo processor with 6mb shared l2 cache , clocked at 2.66 ghz , bring an evolutionary speed increase over the previous model .
the notebook ships with 4gb of 1066 mhz ddr3 sdram , expandable to 8gb ; onboard graphics is the same ( nvidia geforce 9400m and 9600m gt combo ) as used in the 15-inch unibody macbook pro models .
the latter discreet chip comes with 512mb gddr3 video memory and can be turned on to boost graphics performance when needed , albeit at the expense of battery .
but when it comes to battery , the lithium polymer one inside the 17-inch macbook pro squeezes up to 8 hours of runtime .
apple said it created 40 % larger environment-friendly battery without taxing computer 's sleek form factor .
the battery features adaptive charging technology and comes with a chip inside that talks to each cell to adjust the current accordingly , resulting in a three times the charges and lifespan of the industry standard .
" we 've developed new battery technology that is better for the user and better for the environment , " said apple ceo steve jobs .
" apple 's advanced chemistry and innovative technology deliver up to eight hours of use on a full charge cycle and up to 1,000 recharges . " .
the company claims that a " properly maintained " battery in this notebook will retain 80 % or more of its original capacity during a lifespan of up to 1,000 recharge cycles .
connectivity options include wireless 802.11n networking courtesy of the built-in airport extreme card , a bluetooth 2.1 + edr module and gigabit ethernet .
the machine also has one firewire 800 port for connecting video cameras and other professional audio and video equipment , three usb 2.0 ports , audio line in and out ports , each supporting both digital and analog , and expresscard/34 expansion card slot .
storage features include 320gb sata hdd running at 5400 rpm , with apple 's sudden motion sensor that prevents head to scratch platter surface if the machine is suddenly dropped , and a slot-load 8x superdrive with double-layer support .
apple will start shipping the new 17-inch macbook pro at the end of the month for $ 2,799 .
apple launches new macbook pros with ivy bridge , from $1 , 199 .
apple's new macbook pros come with ivy bridge processors and the nvidia geforce gt650m graphics card .
june 11 , 2012 10 : 24 am pdt .
apple today launch its new macbook pro line .
announced at the company's worldwide developers conference keynote , the new macbook pros will boast third - generation ivy bridge processors and the nvidia geforce gt650m graphics .
the line also includes both usb 2 . 0 and usb 3 . 0 support .
unlike apple's next - generation macbook pro , its 13 - and 15 - inch macbook pros don't come with the retina display .
instead , the 13 - inch version boasts 1 , 280 x 800 resolution , and comes with the 2 . 5ghz dual - core intel core i5 processor .
the 15 - inch macbook pro offers a larger 1 , 440 x 900 display and starts out with a 2 . 3ghz quad - core intel core i7 chip .
other than that , the differences across apple's macbook pro line aren't all that major .
both the 13 - and 15 - inch options come with 500gb of storage , and deliver seven hours of battery life .
the cheapest 13 - and 15 - inch macbook pros start with 4gb of ram .
apple's new macbook pro line starts at $1 , 199 for the 13 - inch option , but can go much higher .
the 15 - inch macbook pro starts off at $1 , 799 .
both devices are available now .
today may be apple 's last macworld expo appearance but apple came bearing gifts .
at today 's keynote event , apple introduced a collection of new and refreshed software and hardware products to show off on stage .
apple 's first hardware announcement at macworld today introduced the 17 " macbook pro .
built on the precision unibody enclosure , the pro was launched as the " world 's thinnest 17 " notebook , " at only 0.98 inches thick , and also the " world 's lightest , " weighing in at 6.6 pounds .
its led backlit display supports a 1920x1200 pixel resolution .
other features include a 60 % greater color gamut , a 700:1 contrast ratio , improved viewing angles , and ( thankfully ) a matte screen option as well as a glossy option .
the antiglare option will cost an additional $ 50 .
the $ 2799 17 " pro , which is due to ship in late january , offers 3 usb 2.0 ports , firewire 800 , a mini display port , an express card , a glass trackpad , and up to a 2.93 ghz dual core processor .
the unit supports up to 8gb of ddr3 memory and offers a 320 standard hdd .
a 256 ssd drive is optional .
apple considers the updated battery its most innovative new feature .
according to schiller , it offers the longest battery life ever , with up to 8 hours of use on a single charge for the 9400m ( 7 hours on the 9600 gt ) and up to 1000 charges in a lifetime .
importantly , apple managed to include these improvements without changing the size or weight of the laptop .
the embedded battery uses lithium polymer technology and lasts " three times longer than the industry standard " in terms of number of charges over that lifetime .
an embedded chip in the battery adjusts the power to cells within the battery through " adaptive charging . " .
the new battery is also environmentally green .
itunes goes drm-free .
today apple announced that it was breaking its $ 0.99 per track model and dropping drm for 8 million songs .
the fixed price track gave way to three price tiers : $ 0.69 , $ 0.99 , and $ 1.29 per song .
apple also expanded the iphone music store from wifi only to 3g service .
phil schiller , apple 's senior vice president of worldwide marketing , stood in for a recuperating steve jobs and kicked off the show with a new $ 79 version of ilife 09 ( $ 99 for a family pack ) , which is due to ship at the end of january .
ilife is apple 's suite of consumer photo , movie , and web applications .
iphoto '09 gained a suite of new features like " faces " for organizing photos based on facial recognition , " places " for integrating google maps and viewing photos based on their geo-tags , syncing with facebook and uploading to flickr , new slideshow themes that can be saved out to itunes as movies , and more .
imovie was refreshed with several new features including a precision editor , dynamic themes and animated travel maps .
imovie chief architect randy ubillos demonstrated the updated software , showing how to edit audio with a new advanced drag and drop system .
of particular note is imovie 09 's video stabilization feature .
this automatically corrects for jitters and shakes , enhancing hand-held movie camera footage .
garageband 09 debuted a new " learn to play " feature that helps users master the guitar or piano with an interactive video instructor .
the nine ( free ) basic lessons get end-users up to speed with instruments , and then celebrity artists offer how-to lessons on specific songs .
celebrity lessons cost $ 4.99 per lesson and can be purchased from the in-application store .
this offers an entirely new revenue stream for apple that will certainly appeal to the new rockband generation .
apple 's iwork represents their office suite of tools , including the keynote presentation tool , the pages word processor , and the numbers spreadsheet tool .
keynote '09 introduces updated transitions using apple 's new " magic move " technology , which offers finer control of objects in slide presentations .
the updated keynote also adds new themes and transitions for text and charts .
an iphone application , " keynote remote , " augments presentations .
in vertical mode , the remote app shows your slides and notes together .
in horizontal mode , it mimics the photos application on the phone , allowing you to flick from one slide to the next .
the pages '09 update introduces full screen viewing , letting you block out other items on your computer and focus on the task on hand .
you will not be interrupted by incoming mail or ichat ims when using full screen mode .
dynamic outlines are another new feature , providing a way to organize your writing with drag and drop .
you can switch back and forth between the standard page view and the outline view , letting you move sections around and then return to editing them .
the pages refresh offers 40 new templates , including newsletters , posters , fliers , certificates , and business correspondence .
numbers '09 also received a refresh , which focused on expanding features requested by customers .
among other updates , numbers introduces table categories , easier formula creation , and advanced chart options .
the refreshed numbers now supports mixed chart types , multiple axes , trend lines and error bars .
apple also introduced better pages/numbers integration with live updates .
when users change a numbers spreadsheet , it automatically updates in any pages document it 's cross-linked to .
numbers also introduces presentation templates to enhance the visual appeal of its documents .
iwork '09 ships today and will cost $ 79 for a single license , $ 99 for a family pack and $ 49 with a new mac .
for users who have held off on buying leopard , apple introduced a new mac box set .
this set bundles leopard , ilife and iwork for $ 169. it 's due to ship in late january , when ilife '09 ships .
apple announced a new collaborative site called iwork.com that 's built around iwork .
launching in beta , iwork.com lets users share documents and collaborate online with each other .
users can and edit documents as well as comment on them .
the site supports multiple formats for downloads and sharing and is fully integrated into iwork applications .
you can upload documents directly from pages and other iwork applications by clicking the iwork.com button .
the service will become fee-based after leaving beta , but is free for the duration of the beta .
apple unveils cheaper ivy bridge - powered macbook air .
june 12 , 2012 .
apple has chosen wwdc week to announce an update to its macbook air line .
it may lack the retina display of its newly upgraded , headline - grabbing cousin , the macbook pro , but the 2012 air sees significant advances too .
an upgrade from sandy bridge to ivy bridge processors with improved integrated graphics is chief among the upgrades , and onboard memory has also received a boost .
what hasn't changed is the ultra - thin form factor and ( with the thick end of the wedge maxing out at 0 . 68 in or 17 mm ) , weighing in at 2 . 38 pounds ( 1 . 08 kg ) for the 11 - inch model and 2 . 96 pounds ( 1 . 35 kg ) for the 13 - inch .
battery performance remains as is ( which is no bad thing ) , with a touted 5 and 7 hours for the smaller and larger models respectively while wirelessly browsing the web .
what's new is an upgrade from sandy bridge to the faster ivy bridge processor , which brings with it a switch up from intel hd graphics 3000 to intel hd graphics 4000 .
this should bring with it a noticeable performance boost , though its doubtful that hardcore gamers will be rushing to buy the new airs as portable gaming rigs this year .
the included random access memory allowance has doubled from 2 to 4 gb ( configurable to 8 gb ) , and has been upgraded to lower voltage 1600 - mhz ddr3l sdram .
flash storage remains at 64 gb and 128 gb in the entry - level 11 - and 13 - inch models respectively , though this is now configurable up to 512 gb .
connectivity sees a significant boost with the inclusion of two usb 3 . 0 ports in addition to the thunderbolt port .
the usb 3 . 0 standard allows data transfer more than ten times the speed of usb 2 . 0 .
the power connection has been upgraded to apple's magsafe 2 , which is simply an even smaller version of the magsafe port that lets the power cable disconnected safely in the event of jarring cable snag , preventing unwelcome macbook / floor interface scenarios .
though the 11 - inch air still starts at us$999 , the 13 - inch has dropped $100 to $1199 , making it all the more compelling to laptop - hunters on the prowl for an ultrabook .
apple ceo steve jobs unveiled the company 's new high-end notebook line during the special event being held at apple 's headquarters in cupertino , calif .
the new macbook pro will feature two graphic chipsets , the nvidia geforce 9400m embedded on the motherboard and the nvidia geforce 9600m as a discrete part .
the graphics deliver 32 parallel graphics cores and 125 gigaflops of graphics performance. jobs said that using the 9400m you get five hours of battery life and four hours with the 9600m .
apple tests indicate the new graphics are five times faster than the integrated graphics of the current designs .
the macbook pro will also come with a newly designed trackpad .
the multitouch glass trackpad has a 39 percent larger tracking area than before , according to jobs .
the entire trackpad will act as button , rather than having a separate button like the previous notebooks .
apple has also added to its arsenal of multitouch gestures , adding four-finger gestures with the latest release .
all of the connectors are on the left side of the macbook pro and features a unibody enclosure .
apple designer jonathan ive explained that apple learned a lot when making the macbook air and used that knowledge to design the new macbook pro .
of course , the macbook pro will have all the features you 've come to expect from an apple notebook like like backlit keyboards , magnetic latch , motion sensor , speakers , isight and microphone .
apple is also adding a mini display port on the new models .
a slot-loading superdrive will be on the right-hand side of the macbook pro .
at less than an inch thick the new macbook pro will come in two models .
for $ 1999 you get a 15.4-inch 2.4ghz intel core 2 duo with 3mb l2 cache , an led-backlit display and 2gb 1066 mhz ddr 3 memory , both nvidia cards , a 250gb hard drive and the slot-loading superdrive .
the other model costs $ 2499 and comes with 2.53ghz processor , 6mb l2 , 4gb of memory , 512mb on the nvidia 9600m gt , 320gb hard drive .
the previous generation 15-inch macbook pro also came in two models : a 2.4ghz and a 2.5ghz intel core 2 duo .
those systems came with a 200gb and 250gb hard drive respectively .
although not discussed in detail today , the 17-inch macbook pro was also updated-not a complete makeover as with the 15-inch macbook pro , but more of a minor update .
the system continues to use the same chassis design as before , and does n't have the glass-touch trackpad .
one key change is that the old native screen resolution of 1680 x 1050 has been discontinued-every 17-inch macbook pro now comes with the 1920 x 1200 screen , in either ( standard ) glossy ( no-cost option ) matte form .
while cpu speeds remain the same ( 2.5ghz stock , and $ 250 for an upgrade to 2.6ghz ) , ram has been increased from 2gb to 4gb ( the maximum possible ) , and the hard drive size has increased to 320gb from 250gb .
the standard drive is still a 5400rpm model , with ( as before ) the option of a 320gb 7200rpm drive .
new to the 17-inch macbook pro , however , is an optional 128gb solid-state drive , as used in the updated macbook air .
the macbook pros are shipping today .
apple unveils new macbook air , next - generation macbook pro .
june 11 , 2012 at 10 : 33 am pt .
apple's macbook line , particularly certain portions of it , have been overdue for a refresh .
today , it finally got it .
during the opening keynote of apple's wwdc event monday morning , apple's phil schiller unveiled updates to both the macbook air and the macbook pro , as well as an entirely new next - generation macbook pro with a retina display .
the new macbook air features third - generation 1 . 7ghz intel core processors , a new 512 gigabyte flash - storage option , 60 percent faster graphics , and usb 3 support via a dual usb 2 / usb 3 port .
it also has a new price point that's $100 cheaper than its predecessor .
the new macbook pro features intel ivy bridge chips , running at up to a 2 . 7ghz , with faster graphics .
it , too , has been given a usb 2 / usb 3 port .
the 13 - inch model comes in $1 , 199 and $1 , 499 versions ; the 15 - inch model is offered in $1 , 799 and $2 , 199 versions .
also debuted this morning , apple's new "next - generation macbook pro . " .
"it's the most beautiful computer we've ever made , " schiller said , before listing the device's impressive specs .
the machine is 0 . 71 inches thin , a quarter - inch thinner than the current macbook pro ; it weighs under 4 . 5 pounds .
and yes , it boasts that rumored retina display .
the screen is 2880 pixels by 1800 ; that's four times that of the prior macbook pro , and more than five million pixels total .
the next - generation macbook pro's innards are equally impressive : an intel quad - core i7 processor , up to 2 . 7ghz ; up to 16gb of memory ; nvidia geforce gt 650m graphics ; up to 768gb of internal flash storage ; up to seven hours of battery life ; sd card slot , hdmi , usb 3 , a new magsafe 2 connector and , finally , two thunderbolt ports .
legacy connectors like ethernet and firewire have been abandoned , but can run over thunderbolt via an adapter .
price ?
the basic model starts at $2 , 199 .
the entire notebook lineup is available for purchase today .
apple inc on tuesday ( jan 6 ) introduced what it claims to be the world 's thinnest and lightest 17-inch laptop with a new unibody aluminium enclosure and a built-in battery said to deliver up to eight hours of use and a lifespan three times longer than conventional laptop batteries .
it also announced a revamp of its ilife suite of digital lifestyle software at the macworld expo trade show here , in particular the iphoto photo management software which now comes with face detection technology and built-in support for facebook .
consumers can also teach themselves to play musical instruments with the new version of garageband music creation software .
conspicuously missing from this year 's expo is the company 's iconic ceo steve jobs , who is recuperating from a health problem .
his place as keynote presenter was taken over by vice-president of worldwide product marketing phil schiller .
in a two hour-long keynote , schiller showcased the star attraction of the expo , the top-of-the-line 17-inch apple macbook pro that now features a design similar to apple 's two other laptops , the 13-inch macbook and the 15-inch macbook pro .
its body , carved out of a single block of aluminium , measures just 2.5cm thick .
the laptop weighs less than 2.99kg .
a high resolution , low power consumption led-backlit display and a large button-less trackpad made of glass has now made its way into the laptop as well .
a new built-in battery powers the laptop for eight hours on a single charge .
touted as the greenest notebook family , the new macbook pro 's battery allows up to 1,000 recharges for more than three times the lifespan of conventional laptop batteries .
the typical lifespan for laptop batteries is about three years .
the new 17-inch macbook pro will retail in malaysia for rm10,099 .
iphoto , one of five digital lifestyle software in the ilife 09 suite now , has new features called places and faces .
places automatically imports photo location data from a gps-enabled camera or an apple iphone , while with faces , iphoto automatically scans photos to detect people 's faces and when names are assigned to those faces , iphoto will find more pictures of that person .
taking things a step further , a button in iphoto enables not just convenient publishing of photos on photo sharing websites such as facebook and flickr , but also to detect even more faces on the internet .
calling them " really powerful " , schiller demonstrated how these features help organise thousands of photos .
the updated garageband 09 allows budding musicians to learn to play the piano and guitar at their own pace .
basic lessons allow newbies to learn the fundamentals while a feature called artist lessons has original artists including john fogerty , colbie caillat , norah jones and sting showing how to play their hit songs .
" ilife has become one of the reasons people buy a mac today .
there 's nothing like it on any other computing platform , " said schiller .
priced at rm299 for single user , ilife 09 will ship end of january .
also announced at macworld were updates to the company 's iwork office productivity suite .
called iwork 09 , the three software that makes up the suite , namely keynote , pages and numbers have received new themes , sophisticated transition effects and a quick way to group and summarise data .
iwork 09 is available immediately for rm299 .
the " one more thing " announcement -- jobs ' trademark way of announcing something unexpected -- was reserved for a new three-tier pricing for apple 's itunes online music store which is not available in malaysia .
jobs , who survived a pancreatic cancer in 2004 and appeared to be losing weight throughout 2008 , on monday ( jan 5 ) wrote a personal letter addressed to the apple community , saying doctors have pinpointed hormone imbalance as the reason for his illness .
" the remedy for this nutritional problem is relatively simple and straightforward , and i 've already begun treatment , " he wrote , adding that he would remain as apple 's ceo and expects to be back in shape by spring this year .
apple unveils new macbook pro with ivy bridge at wwdc .
june 12th , 2012 .
apple is certainly making wwdc a hardware conference this year - it just unveiled a refresh of the existing macbook pro running intel's newer ivy bridge processors on the san francisco gathering's opening day .
the 13 - and 15 - inch portables run up to 2 . 7ghz quad core i7s ( turbo up to 3 . 7ghz ) , carry up to 8gb of ram and have geforce gt 650m - based graphics 60 percent faster than the previous generation .
like the new macbook air , they tout usb 3 . 0 ports .
if you're more comfortable with apple's conventional macbook pro design than the new variety , apple will ask $1 , 099 for the base 13 - inch version and $1 , 799 for a 15 - inch version , with an upgraded 15 - inch model going for $2 , 199 .
all of them are shipping today - we're not seeing any mention of an updated 17 - inch version , so it may have been cast aside .
the only hardware release at macworld expo 2009 was a predictable unibody upgrade for the 17-inch macbook pro , which apple reports will have an eight-hour battery life .
eight hours is surely impressive for such a large , powerful notebook .
but this news is nonetheless underwhelming for several reasons .
some thought apple was strategically waiting so it could ship the 17-inch macbook pro with a low-cost , quad-core processor .
intel released such a chip just recently , and apc suspected this cpu would appear in apple 's top-of-the-line notebook .
but much to our disappointment , the 17-incher is shipping with a plain ol ' dual-core ( core 2 duo ) chip .
true , at 2.66 ghz it 's slightly faster than the other macbook pros .
but there are hardly any substantial changes to justify the longer wait for this notebook .
apple was able to beef up the macbook pro 's battery by taking advantage of the generous amount of space available in the notebook 's enclosure .
this battery is also non-removable , which apple said was necessary to use as much space as possible .
apple also claims the new macbook pro 's battery is more environmentally friendly because it lasts five years and has fewer toxins .
looks like our apple source , and several others in various blogs , were incorrect about the rumor of a new mac mini launching at macworld .
we 'll look into the reasons why and provide an update soon .
apple intros new macbook pro , blurs line between tablet , computer .
monday , june 11th , 2012 at 10 : 49 am .
apple has unveiled the next generation of macbook pro at the wwdc keynote in san francisco .
the 15 . 4 macbook pro refresh will be remarkably thin , at 0 . 71 and at 4 . 46 pounds , it will be the thinnest and lightest macbook pro ever .
the display is where the macbook pro refresh truly shines , with a retina display at a whopping 2 , 880 by 1 , 800 pixels .
that amounts to 5 , 184 , 000 pixels and 220 ppi , 4 times the current pixel count in the existing macbook pros .
apple touts it as the world's highest - resolution notebook display .
all stock mac applications have been updated to support the retina display on the new macbook pro , as well as several other popular applications including aperture , final cut pro , and diablo iii .
updates for adobe's suite of programs and autocad should be coming soon as well .
the new macbook pro will feature intel's 3rd - generation core ( ivy bridge ) processor up to an i7 2 . 7 ghz quad - core , up to 768gb of internal flash storage , and up to 16gb of ram .
kepler gt 650m graphics will also be included on all models of the new macbook pro , which should offer a superb gaming experience .
the new macbook pro will feature 7 hours of battery life , with up to 30 days of standby time .
completing the feature set are an sd reader , hdmi and usb 3 . 0 , magsafe 2 , thunderbolt , usb 3 . 0 , headphone jack , black magik 5k camera , firewire 800 , and gigaport ethernet thunderbolt adapters .
the new macbook pro will start at $2 , 199 for the 2 . 3 ghz quad - core i7 model with 256gb flash storage , and go up from there .
oh , and the best part ?
the new macbook pro starts shipping today .
go ahead and start throwing your credit cards at the screen , folks .
for me the new , unibody macbook pro 17-inch ( pn mb604ll/a ) is probably the most exciting thing announced here at macworld expo .
not only because i 'm more of a hardware guy but also because i 'm a macbook freak .
so , where to start ?
the mbp has three compelling new features .
the new mbp17 has a matte screen option .
can i get a hallelujah ? !
i 've been a staunch critic of glossy displays in macbooks , and i 'm not the only one .
it appears that cupertino is finally listening .
the unibody macbook pro 17 is the first in the new form-factor macbooks to offer a configuration with a matte screen apple calls " antiglare . " .
it 's a $ 50 option though , which is a bit of a slap in the face .
if i 'm spending $ 2,800 on a notebook computer you 'd think that apple would throw in the matte screen option .
but at least it 's available , which is excellent .
the question that remains is if the matte screen option will trickle down to the mbp15 and even the mb13 .
representatives in the apple booth did n't know the answer when i asked them today .
the new mbp17 can support up to 8gb of maximum ram ( and has 4gb standard ) which is a huge step in the right direction .
if you can get past the 8gb $ 1,200 sticker price , that is .
i 'm sure that the ram price is so high because the new 17 ships with two , 2gb 1066mhz ddr3 sdram modules and both have to be removed and replaced with two , 4gb modules to get to 8gb .
prices will eventually come down and 8gb is an attractive option for memory hungry applications and anything to do with virtualization .
the mbp17 's fixed battery is a bit of a scandal .
it 's as if apple did n't learn its lesson with the macbook air and iphone batteries .
after watching the video by the battery engineers during today 's keynote , i 'm partially convinced .
their justification is that fixed batteries save a lot of room previously occupied by connectors , latches and doors .
a fixed battery can use more internal real estate in the enclosure to store power - goes the refrain. as a result the mbp17 fixed battery holds 40 percent more energy and will last up to 8 hours on a charge ( 7 hours when using the faster nvidia 9600m gt chip ) according to apple .
i 'm curious about the real-world run times though .
most companies base their battery benchmarks on perfect world conditions and it will be interesting to see how long the new battery really lasts .
the third usb port is a welcome addition but it comes at the expense of a dedicated fw400 port on the previous model .
solid state drives ( ssds ) are now available as 128mb ( + $ 500 ) and 256mb ( + $ 900 ) options .
in case you 're wondering , a maxed out mbp17 configuration ( 2.93ghz , 8gb , 256gb ssd and anti-glare ) will set you back $ 5,250 .
start saving your nickels and dimes , kids .
i 'm going to wait and see if the anti-glare screen trickles down to the mbp 15-inch before diving in , although the 8gb of ram is attractive .
apple unveils new flagship macbook pro .
june 11 , 2012 .
apple has unveiled its new flagship next generation macbook pro .
apple has unveiled its new flagship laptop : the next generation macbook pro .
this new macbook pro boasts several upgrades of note , including a slimmer profile : at 0 . 71 inches thick , it is the same thickness as a macbook air .
apple ceo tim cook claimed that "it's thinner than my finger" and will weigh just 4 . 5 pounds .
the aesthetics of the next generation macbook pro will remain the same : it will still have the same aluminum unibody case and backlit keyboard .
the main differences of note are the internal components and the display .
either an i5 or i7 quad core intel processor powers the next generation macbook pro .
coupled with turbo boost , the i7 will be able to reach speeds of up to 3 . 7 ghz .
this flagship model with run off 16gb of ram , and will also have up to 768 gb of flash storage .
for a graphics processor , the next generation macbook pro will have a 1gb geforce gt 650m graphics card .
all this hardware will be necessary to help support the shiny new display specs .
tim cook announced that apple's new laptop will have retina display , meaning that you won't be able to distinguish individual pixels from a typical viewing distance .
in hard numbers , that means the screen with have a 2880x1800 resolution with 220 pixels per inch .
the next generation macbook pro will also carry some standard ports , and a number upgraded ports .
it will have two usb ports which will support both 3 . 0 and 2 . 0 .
it will also have two thunderbolt , an hdmi , an sd card reader , and a headphone jack .
the new pro does not include an ethernet jack or firewire 800 port , but apple has introduced two adapters that offer thunderbolt to gigabit ethernet and thunderbolt to firewire 800 connections .
so , the standard model will have a 15 . 4" retina display , 2 . 3 ghz i7 , 8gb of ram , 256 gb of flash storage , and a geforce gt 650m .
the final price tag for the next generation macbook pro ?
$2199 .
the higher end model costs $2799 .
apple is also upgrading the current macbook pro and air models .
both laptops will receive new ivy bridge cpus , but the price will not increase .
the 11 - inch air will cost from $999 up to $1099 .
the 13" macbook air will get a 1 . 8 ghz i5 dual core processor and intel hd graphics 4000 , a nd the price remains at $1099 to $1499 .
the macbook pros are getting more upgrades .
the 13" model will have the option for a 2 . 9 ghz i7 , 750 gb hdd , and up to 8 gb of ram , priced at $1799 .
lower - specced models will cost from $1199 .
also of note , is that the the new macbook pros will support two usb 3 . 0 ports .
the 15" models with have either 2 . 3 or 2 . 6 ghz i7 quad cores .
they will also have upgraded gpus , a choice between either 516mb or 1gb geforce gt 650m .
these large models will be priced between $1799 and $2199 , but for that price might as well hold out for the next generation macbook pro with the retina display .
all of these new models are available immediately .
south sudan warns of war after sudan bombs refugee camp .
military aircraft from sudan crossed the new international border with south sudan and dropped bombs thursday in and around a camp filled with refugees , officials said .
a government official initially reported deaths , but an american activist who spoke to aid workers at the camp later said there were no casualties .
the violence in and near the yida refugee camp , located 10 miles south of the border , came one day after bombings were reported in another region of south sudan , an attack that provoked strong condemnation from the u . s . state department .
the president of south sudan , which became the world's newest country only four months ago , said he fears the khartoum - based government intends to invade the south soon .
"whatever allegations khartoum labels against the republic of south sudan are baseless , but intended to justify his pending invasion of the south , " president salva kiir said .
he later added : "we are committed to peaceful resolutions to any conflict but we will never allow our sovereignty to be violated by anybody . " .
there was no immediate comment from the sudanese government in khartoum on thursday .
the violence is especially troubling given the history between the two sides : the black african tribes of south sudan and the mainly arab north battled two civil wars over more than five decades , and some 2 million died in the latest war , from 1983 - 2005 .
a peace deal ended the war and south sudan became its own country in july after a successful independence referendum .
but there have been lingering disputes over border demarcation and oil - sharing revenues .
ryan boyette , a former aid worker who lives in sudan who is now leading a team of 15 citizen journalists , said he talked to five aid workers in the yida camp , all of whom said that four bombs were dropped but that they caused no casualties .
plane bombs south sudan refugee camp - witness .
thu , 10 nov 2011 02 : 45 pm .
a refugee camp was the target of an air strike in south sudan's unity state on thursday , less than 50 km ( 30 miles ) from the tense border with sudan , a reuters witness said .
there appeared to be no casualties .
the reuters correspondent heard a large explosion , then saw a crater about two metres ( 6 . 6 feet ) wide , an unexploded bomb wedged in the side of a school building and a white aircraft flying north from the yida refugee camp .
witnesses at the camp said there were three other explosions at 3 p . m . ( 1200 gmt ) .
israel 's assault on gaza has exacted the bloodiest toll of civilian lives yet , when the bombing of un schools being used as refugee centres and of housing killed more than 50 people , including an entire family of seven young children .
the un protested at a " complete absence of accountability " for the escalating number of civilian deaths in gaza , saying " the rule of the gun " had taken over .
doctors in gaza said more than 40 people died , including children , in what appears to be the biggest single loss of life of the campaign when israeli bombs hit al-fakhora school , in jabaliya refugee camp , while it was packed with hundreds of people who had fled the fighting .
most of those killed were in the school playground and in the street , and the dead and injured lay in pools of blood .
pictures on palestinian tv showed walls heavily marked by shrapnel and bloodstains , and shoes and shredded clothes scattered on the ground .
windows were blown out .
hours before , three young men who were cousins died when the israelis bombed asma elementary school in gaza city .
they were among 400 people who had sought shelter there after fleeing their homes in beit lahiya , in northern gaza .
abed sultan , 20 , a student , and his cousins , rawhi and hussein sultan , labourers aged 22 , died .
abed sultan 's father , samir , said the bodies were so mangled that he could not tell his son from the cousins .
" we came to the school when the israelis warned us to leave , " he said .
" we hoped it would be safe .
we were 20 in one room .
we had no electricity , no blankets , no food .
" suddenly we heard a bomb that shook the school .
windows smashed .
children started to scream .
a relative came and told me one of my sons was killed .
i found my son 's body with his two cousins .
they were cut into pieces by the shell . " .
the un was particularly incensed over targeting of the schools , because israeli forces knew they were packed with families as they had ordered them to get out of their homes with leaflet drops and loudspeakers .
it said it had identified the schools as refugee centres to the israeli military and provided gps coordinates .
israel accused hamas of using civilians as cover , and said the islamist group could stop the assault on gaza by ending its rocket attacks on israel .
the palestinian authority president , mahmoud abbas , last night delivered an impassioned plea to the un security council to act immediately to stop the israeli operation , which he described as a " catastrophe " for his people .
israel has agreed a " humanitarian corridor " to allow palestinians to get essential goods .
the rising casualty toll , more than 640 palestinians killed since the assault began 12 days ago , gave fresh impetus to diplomatic efforts .
the white house offered its first hint of concern at israel 's actions by calling on it to avoid civilian deaths .
the president-elect , barack obama , broke his silence by saying he was " deeply concerned " about civilian casualties on both sides .
he said he would have " plenty to say " about the crisis after his swearing in .
gordon brown said the middle east was facing its " darkest moment yet " but hoped a ceasefire could be arranged soon .
explaining its attack on al-fahora school , the israeli military claimed that a mortar was fired from the playground , and it responded with a single shell whichkilled known hamas fighters ; the resulting explosion was compounded because hamas " booby-trapped the school " .
two hamas militants were among the dead , both part of a rocket-launching cell .
the head of the un palestinian refugee agency , john ging , said three shells landed at the perimeter of the school .
" it was entirely inevitable if artillery shells landed in that area there would be a high number of casualties , " he said .
he said un staff vetted those palestinians who sought shelter at the school .
" so far we 've not had violations by militants of our facilities , " he said , though responding to questions he accepted there had been clashes between hamas and the israeli army in the area .
earlier in the day , ging visited gaza 's hospital and was shocked at the scale of civilian casualties .
" what you have in this hospital is the consequences of political failure and the complete absence of any accountability for actions that are being taken .
it 's the rule of the gun now , and it has to stop , " he said .
at least 12 of one family , seven children aged from one to 12 , three women and two men , were killed in an air strike on their house in gaza city .
nine others were believed trapped .
israel continues to insist most of those killed by its forces are hamas and islamic jihad fighters - although its assertion it is going to extraordinary lengths to target only " terrorists " has been undermined by a tank firing on a building used by israeli troops , killing four of them , on monday .
another soldier was killed yesterday as israeli forces continued their push into gaza city .
tanks and troops also moved on the southern town of khan yunis .
the invasion has yet to achieve what israel says is its goal of stopping rocket attacks .
hamas fired more than 30 into israel yesterday , one to within 20 miles of tel aviv at gadera , wounding a baby .
the de facto hamas prime minister in gaza , ismail haniyeh , issued a statement from hiding , saying that the gazans would defeat israel .
" [ israel ] has failed to force the population to surrender , " he said .
breaking news : sudan bombs yida refugee camp in south sudan .
on nov 10 , 2011 .
the sudan armed forces , or saf , attacked a refugee camp in south sudan at 2 : 53 p . m . local time today .
enough project sources indicated that no one was killed or injured in the attack , contrary to initial estimates from the unity state government .
however , casualty figures remain unconfirmed .
a saf spokesman denied the attack occurred .
at least four bombs were reportedly dropped .
sources on the ground told enough that one bomb , which did not explode , fell directly within the camp , in a primary school yard , with several more falling in the close vicinity .
a reuters correspondent reported hearing a large explosion , then saw "a crater about two metres ( 6 . 6 feet ) wide , an unexploded bomb wedged in the side of a school building and a white aircraft flying north .
observers believe the attacks were carried out by the saf's signature antonov bombers .
one of the bombs landed inside a primary school yard in the camp , according to citizen journalist ryan boyette , who was on the phone with sources in the camp when the raid began .
boyette reported school was in session but no children or staff were injured , since the bomb did not explode .
three other bombs allegedly exploded outside the camp : two landed and exploded on the outskirts , near the airfield where two u . n . aircraft had landed today to deliver food .
the first aircraft departed without incident , but the bombings reportedly began shortly after the second aircraft arrived .
the plane was not damaged .
yida is home to more than 22 , 000 refugees , many of whom walked at least seven days across the border to flee indiscriminate bombing and approaching famine conditions in sudan's south kordofan state .
since fighting between the saf and the sudanese peoples' liberation army - north , or spla - n , began in july , hundreds of thousands of civilians have fled south kordofan , many into the border areas of newly independent south sudan .
the attack on yida camp comes shortly after reports of aerial bombardments in south sudan's upper nile state , making it sudan's second unprovoked military attack on the sovereign state of south sudan in the last three days .
in a november 9 press conference , south sudan president salva kiir stated his country would not retaliate for the reported bombing of guffa in upper nile state on tuesday , which he said killed seven .
it remains to be seen how the government of south sudan will respond to this second attack within its borders ; president kiir held a press conference today on relations with sudan just hours before the alleged attack on yida camp .
"the regime in khartoum is attempting to provoke south sudan into restarting a war , " said enough project co - founder john prendergast , quoted by the associated press .
"the regime's endgame is to either capture south sudan's oilfields along their common border , or achieve a stronger negotiating position on shared oil revenues and border demarcation . this provocation must be countered by the full force of the international community , or else a massive war could unfold . " .
no militants were inside a united nations-run school attacked by israeli forces in gaza , leaving 40 people dead , the un says .
christopher gunness from the un relief and works agency said an initial investigation left him 99.9 per cent sure there were no militants at the school .
about 1000 people were sheltering in the school after having been hounded from their homes by warfare , he said .
mr gunness slammed the israeli attack on the school .
" of course it 's appalling , " he told abc television from jerusalem .
" this fighting has to stop . " .
" enough people , among them women and children , have died . " .
mr gunness said civilian deaths were an inevitable consequence of attacking a crowded place like gaza .
" imagine a situation where someone says we 're going to plan a massive air bombardment , but it 'll be pinprick and surgical , on downtown sydney , " he said .
unhcr condemns air attack on refugee camp in south sudan .
11 november 2011 .
the un refugee agency on friday strongly condemned the aerial bombing of a temporary refugee camp in south sudan sheltering more than 20 , 000 civilians fleeing from conflict in neighbouring sudan's nuba mountains .
"two of the bombs fell within the yida camp , including one close to the school , " said unhcr spokesman adrian edwards .
"fortunately there were no casualties in the camp and we are verifying the situation of surrounding communities , " he told journalists in geneva .
unhcr had been readying new refugee sites away from the border in unity state when the incident occurred on thursday .
"we had hoped to begin the relocation of refugees but our efforts have so far been hampered by heavy rains which have made the road to the camp impassable , " edwards explained .
the refugee agency is concerned by the escalating tensions in the border areas between sudan and south sudan , where hundreds of thousands of civilians have been uprooted since june as a result of fighting .
there are also reports this week of bombing in new guffa village of south sudan's upper nile state resulting in civilian casualties .
as many as 55 , 000 civilians originating from the damazine and kurmuk areas are said to be moving southwards in sudan's blue nile state .
some of these people are heading to chali within blue nile state .
others are crossing into new guffa village , nine kilometres from the border , or bunj , the capital of maban county in south sudan's upper nile state .
others may be moving into neighbouring ethiopia , where more than 30 , 000 sudanese have found refuge and are being helped by unhcr and its partners .
new arrivals in maban county describe empty villages south of kurmuk town on the other side of the border .
the new arrivals are being registered in bunj , where unhcr has a way station as well as a warehouse that holds enough supplies for 15 , 000 refugees .
un assessment teams are planning to travel to maban over the weekend to assess the humanitarian conditions for new arrivals .
meanwhile , local authorities have been identifying temporary reception sites as more arrivals are anticipated amid heightened tensions .
the united nations on wednesday denied israel defense forces claims that there were palestinian militants in the gaza school bombed by israel on tuesday .
christopher gunness of the un relief and works agency ( unrwa ) said the organization is 99.9 percent certain there were no militants or military activity in its school .
that does not necessarily contradict israel 's claim that the militants were operating close by , gunness said .
gunness put the death toll of the shelling at 40 , and added that the agency wants an impartial investigation of witnesses , israeli military photographs or any other evidence .
the idf on tuesday released video footage from 2007 showing palestinian militants firing from the school compound and carrying a rocket launcher with them as they flee the scene .
11 november 2011 last updated at 12 : 41 gmt .
sudan 'bombs refugees' in south sudan's unity state .
south sudanese officials have condemned sudan after an aerial bombardment of a refugee camp in their territory .
the bbc's james copnall was at the yida camp in oil - rich unity state , which borders sudan , when it was bombed .
local official miabek lang said at least 12 people had been killed and 20 wounded .
the sudanese military , which has been fighting rebels in areas near south sudan , has denied the claims .
our reporter says he arrived at the camp at about 12 : 00 gmt on thursday as a second round of bombs hit .
he says that just as a un helicopter , carrying food aid , settled on to a makeshift landing zone at the camp , there was a deep and terrifying thud of a nearby explosion .
a large plane was spotted heading to the north , our reporter says .
'completely false' .
several residents of the refugee camp told him it was an antonov plane , often used by the sudanese government as a makeshift bomber .
the refugees said the plane had circled before launching two bombing raids .
five bombs were dropped , of which four exploded , they told our correspondent .
our reporter says he did not see any casualties , but mr lang , the commissioner of pariang county in unity state , said that 12 people had been killed and the death toll could rise .
incidents like this , and both sides' belief that the other is sponsoring rebels on their territory , are contributing to a rapidly deteriorating relationship between sudan and south sudan , he says .
thousands of people who have fled fighting in sudan's south kordofan region have crossed the border to take refuge at the yida camp .
sudan's army has often been accused of bombing south kordofan , where it is facing a rebellion from pro - southern groups .
our reporter says there is talk that rebels use the camp to rest before returning to south kordofan to fight .
the refugees are , however , furious with sudan's president omar al - bashir over the bombings , he says .
the governor of unity state , taban deng , said mr bashir should be held responsible .
"why does omar bashir do this ?
he has a lot to answer , " mr deng said .
however , sudan armed forces spokesman sawarmi khaled saad vehemently denied any links to the raid .
"this information is completely false .
we didn't bomb any camps or any areas inside the borders of south sudan , " he told the afp news agency .
"what is going on in south sudan belongs to the southerners .
we don't have any links to this . " .
the south sudan liberation army rebel group is active in unity state - it denies claims that it is working for khartoum in order to destabilise its neighbour .
south sudan gained independence in july under a peace deal which followed decades of north - south conflict .
seventeen hours after the attack on one of his schools killed 40 palestinians seeking shelter from israel 's war on hamas , the united nations ' director of operations in gaza , john ging , was certain of at least one thing " we have established beyond any doubt that the school was not being used by any militants , " mr ging told the age last night .
" they were innocent people . " .
speaking by phone from the un 's relief and works agency in gaza , mr ging struggled to contain his anger at the attack that has also left more 50 people with serious injuries , 10 of whom remain critical .
israel has demanded that hamas be prevented from rearming as a main condition for a ceasefire .
when the israeli attack came on the prep c girls school in the jabaliya camp at 3.45pm on tuesday , mr ging said about 350 palestinians were inside , using the school as a shelter .
" the reason they were in the school is because the israelis had told them to go there , " he said .
" they were doing exactly as they had been told . " .
to ensure there was no confusion about the school 's location , mr ging said the united nations gave specific gps co-ordinates to israeli defence forces commanders .
but after receiving reports that mortar shells had been fired at israeli units from within the school grounds , the commanders decided to strike back .
" they shot back to save their own lives , " said israeli defence forces spokesman ilan tal .
three tanks shells exploded just outside the school grounds , causing pandemonium inside .
" as you can imagine , this was a very distressing attack , " mr ging said .
" it has killed 40 people , and some of those who were injured may yet die .
" now we need to know how this happened .
a full , transparent and independent inquiry has to be held to determine exactly how this occurred . " .
the israeli defence forces maintained that mortars had been fired from the school .
in a statement released by spokesman captain benjamin rutland , it said it had incontrovertible evidence to support its version of events .
" this is not the first time that hamas has fired mortars and rockets from schools , in such a way deliberately using civilians as human shields in their acts of terror against israel , " the statement said .
brigadier-general avi benayahu said the israeli defence forces had established that hamas terror operatives were among the dead at the school , and had proof of a mortar battery cell that had been firing in the area .
" hamas operatives imad abu askhar and hassan abu askhar were among terrorists that were identified to be killed , " he said .
the attack on the school has caused widespread shock across israel , intensifying pressure on prime minister ehud olmert to reach a ceasefire .
after 13 days of bombardment of gaza from the air , land and sea , which has claimed more than 660 lives , the past few days of fighting have been among the bloodiest in the history of the israel-palestinian conflict .
five israeli soldiers lost their lives on wednesday , four from friendly fire , bringing to 10 the number of israelis who have been killed .
just before midnight on tuesday , three gazans were killed when israeli forces attacked another un school in gaza city .
earlier that day , a shell hit a house in the beach refugee camp , killing at least seven members of one family .
shelling of houses in the bureij refugee camp left at least five dead and 16 injured .
bombing at yida refugee camp , south sudan .
on thursday , november 10th at approximately 3 : 00 pm , the yida refugee camp in south sudan was bombed .
nonviolent peaceforce's yida protection team lives and works in the camp , providing protection monitoring and support to nearly 23 , 000 nuban refugees who have fled to south sudan to escape the escalating violent conflict across the border in sudan's south kordofan .
four bombs were dropped within just a few moments - two landed inside the camp itself , while the other two bombs were dropped near the airstrip where a un helicopter was delivering much needed food aid .
of the bombs that landed inside the camp , one detonated about a quarter mile from the np compound .
the other landed next to the school building where 300 students were attending class , but it did not explode .
tiffany ornelas , np's yida team leader , reported that "people were terrified ; they were running and screaming in all directions" .
however , there have been no casualties or fatalities confirmed as a result of this bombing .
in the days following the bombing , np's team has been working with the refugee and host communities to verify the damage to the camp , account for children who fled during the bombing , set up a safety perimeter around the unexploded bomb to prevent curious children from approaching it , and explore options to further improve the safety and security of the refugees living at the camp .
np's protection team arrived in yida one month ago to respond to the direct protection needs of the camp and host populations .
np's team of 3 international and 3 local protection officers are working to facilitate secure relations between both communities and to provide specialized support for the most vulnerable civilians , including more than 1200 unaccompanied children .
date published : tuesday , november 15 , 2011 .
united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon today spoke out against israel 's " totally unacceptable " attacks against three clearly-marked united nations schools , where civilians were seeking refuge from the ongoing conflict in gaza , with a senior official calling for an independent inquiry into the incidents which claimed dozens of lives .
more than two dozen schools run by the un relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east ( unrwa ) are serving as temporary shelters to more than 15,000 palestinians whose homes have been destroyed or who are fleeing the violence .
the agency 's education programmes have been suspended since the start of israeli air attacks on gaza , which israel says it launched in response to rocket attacks by hamas militants , on 27 december .
civilians " are seeking sanctuary in unrwa schools because they have no other place to go and are not able to flee the gaza strip , " mr. ban said in a statement .
some 30 people were killed and 55 others injured , five of them critically , when three artillery shells landed at the perimeter of a school , which usually serves as a girls ' preparatory school , in the jabaliya refugee camp , according to john ging , unrwa 's director of operations .
also in jabaliya , a boys ' school was attacked but it was empty , he said .
last night , three palestinians , who had sought refuge in a small co-educational un school in gaza city , died when a missile hit the building 's toilet facilities .
the three men who were killed were " gazans who had fled their home earlier that day , " the unrwa official said , adding that they thought " they would be safe in a un school in gaza city . " .
these attacks reinforce the urgent need for a ceasefire to end the mounting casualties , he said , demanding an independent investigation into these attacks .
" i sincerely hope that for the sake of those that have died , that it would not have been in vain . " .
in a separate incident , seven un staff were injured , three seriously , along with three patients , when a strike on a nearby building caused significant collateral damage to a unrwa health centre .
" the location of all un facilities have been communicated to the israeli authorities and are known to the israeli army , " the secretary-general said .
after earlier strikes , israel 's government had been warned that its operations were endangering un facilities .
" i am deeply dismayed that despite these repeated efforts , today 's tragedies have ensued , " he said .
the israeli attacks against un sites housing civilians seeking refuge are " totally unacceptable and must not be repeated , " mr. ban stressed .
" equally unacceptable are any actions by militants which endanger the palestinian civilian population . " .
these events highlight the dangers posed by continued and stepped up fighting , he said , reiterating his call for an immediate ceasefire .
mr. ban will speak further about the latest developments in gaza and southern israel during a public meeting this evening of the un security council , chaired by french foreign minister bernard kouchner .
the council had met behind closed doors on saturday after israel expanded its week-old air strikes into a ground offensive into gaza , but reached no formal agreement regarding the violence and worsening humanitarian situation .
south sudan accuses sudan of air strike on refugee camp .
thu nov 10 , 2011 3 : 00pm est .
a refugee camp in south sudan's unity state was bombed thursday , south sudan officials and witnesses said , threatening to raise tensions with sudan in the violence - plagued border region .
taban deng , the governor of unity state , accused sudan of carrying out the attack .
"these people ( khartoum ) should be taken to book .
they should adhere to international laws and regulations , " he told reporters in bentiu .
sudan's armed forces denied they carried out the strike .
in a statement before the bombing , south sudan's president salva kiir talked of sudan's "pending invasion" of its neighbor .
violence along the poorly defined border since south sudan's independence in july has strained ties between the two former civil war foes .
they have accused one another of backing rebel groups on their sides of the border .
a reuters correspondent heard a large explosion in the yida refugee camp , then saw a crater about two meters ( 6 . 6 feet ) wide , an unexploded bomb wedged in the side of a school building and a white aircraft flying north .
witnesses said there were three further explosions at 3 p . m . ( 1200 gmt ) .
yida is a camp of about 20 , 000 refugees from the nuba mountains region of south kordofan , a state north of the border where rebels have been fighting sudan's army since june .
khartoum reported fresh clashes in the state thursday .
there were no immediate reports of any casualties at the camp , less than 25 km ( 15 miles ) from the border with sudan .
a spokesman for the enough project , an activist group that works to end genocide , said the group confirmed there were no dead or wounded .
"the refugees need to be safe and need to be protected .
they ran away from war .
they should not be pursued inside the territory of south sudan , " deng , the governor , said .
al - sawarmi khalid , spokesman for sudan's armed forces , said sudan had not bombed anywhere in south sudan's territory .
"south sudan is a state in the united nations .
we respect international law , and it's impossible that we would do that , " he said .
khalid said sudanese forces fought rebels in south kordofan about five kilometers south of the town of taludi thursday , killing dozens and destroying a tank and other military vehicles .
fighting has also broken out in sudan's blue nile state this year .
the two states are home to tens of thousands of fighters who sided with the south during the war but were left in sudan when south sudan seceded , analysts say .
south sudan split off into a separate country in july after voting overwhelmingly for secession in a january referendum , the culmination of a 2005 peace deal that ended decades of war between north and south .
volatile border .
fire crackled in the dry grass around the crater about 100 meters away from an aid agency compound in yida camp .
"they ( khartoum ) don't want any life in the nuba mountains , and now they are expanding the war to the south sudan republic , " said yousif ismail , a refugee from the nuba mountains , as he stood by the hole .
last week , khartoum submitted its second complaint to the u . n . security council , accusing south sudan of supplying anti - aircraft and anti - tank missiles , ammunition , landmines and mortars to insurgents in south kordofan and blue nile states .
kiir denied those claims in a statement thursday , calling them "smoke screens to mask khartoum's own activities in support of the armed dissident groups that are fighting its proxy war against the republic of south sudan . " .
the accusations were being used to justify sudan's "pending invasion of the south , " kiir said .
the two countries have yet to agree on how much the new nation will pay to use sudan's oil pipelines and other facilities , which south sudan depends on to export crude .
they also dispute control of the abyei region .
some 2 million people died in the north - south civil war , waged for all but a few years since 1955 over religion , ideology , ethnicity and oil .
brussels condemns israeli bombing of un school .
pressure to obtain a ceasefire in gaza has been mounting , with the eu warning israel it was " destroying " its image , while israeli forces on tuesday ( 6 january ) killed at least 40 people during an attack on a united nations-run school in gaza .
the israeli attack on the fakhora school in the northern town of jabaliya , which also wounded around 100 people , was the deadliest single strike of the offensive so far and the third un school to come under fire within 24 hours .
the bombing has drawn international condemnation , with the eu calling it " completely unacceptable . " .
" we think the attack is completely unacceptable and strongly condemn the fact that civilians were hit while sheltering themselves from the violence , " said cristina gallach , spokesperson of eu foreign policy chief javier solana .
john ging , the head of the un relief and works agency , through which most eu aid to gaza is distributed alongside the red cross and red crescent condemned the attack as " horrific " and suggested israel knew it was targetting a un facility .
" we have provided the gps co-ordinates of every single one of our locations , " he told the bbc .
" they are clearly marked with un insignia , flags flying , lights shining on the flags at night .
it 's very clear that these are united nations installations . " .
the israeli military however argued hamas fighters had fired mortar shells at their forces from the school and they had to return fire .
in the aftermath of the school attack , tel aviv decided to allow the establishment of a " humanitarian corridor " into the gaza strip , premier ehud olmert 's office said last night .
christopher gunness , spokesman for the un relief and works agency ( unrwa ) described the situation on the ground to the euobserver .
some 1 million gazans are currently without electricity , another 250,000 are without running water , and every hospital is running on emergency generators .
unrwa hands out food to 750,000 people daily , but mr gunness warned that they will run out of food " in days , rather than weeks " , and there was no food distribution on tuesday at all .
tzipi livni , the israeli foreign minister said several times last week that there is no humanitarian crisis in the occupied territory , and the israeli ambassador to the eu yesterday told this website that ms livni had explained to the eu peace delegation on monday .
" everything is being done and will be done to avoid a humanitarian crisis . " .
the un 's mr gunness disagreed with the minister .
" there is a humanitarian crisis already , so she 's not managed to avoid one . " .
" it 's impossible to do our jobs. the reason we had to cancel food distribution today is because our trucking contractor had two relatives killed by the israelis .
there was a wake organised but then that was attacked too .
it 's just too dangerous for them to be driving around . " .
" during the period of relative calm of about five-six months following the 19 july truce , we regularly asked to get aid in , but israel did n't give permission . " .
on 19 june 2008 , a six-month egypt-brokered truce agreement was reached between hamas and israel .
tel aviv however broke the cease-fire on 4 november 2008 , when israeli troops raided the gaza strip and killed six hamas gunmen .
at the time , israel claimed hamas was planning to use a tunnel to capture israeli soldiers .
the truce completely broke down on 20 december , when hamas officially announced that they would not be extending the cease-fire , and began launching rockets targetting southern israel once again .
meanwhile , egypt has put forward a truce plan that would include an immediate ceasefire , as well as meetings in cairo between leaders of israel and " palestinian factions , " news wires report .
details of the proposal are not known yet , but its main focus is to halt the violence and secure borders between gaza and israel , as well as gaza and egypt - so as to limit arms smuggling from egypt into the gaza strip .
according to the bbc , both palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas and the us have backed the proposal .
israel has said it would look into the suggestion .
" i am very sure it will be considered ... we take it very , very seriously , " gabriela shalev , israel 's ambassador to the un , was quoted as saying by reuters .
more than 600 palestinians have been killed so far in the 12 days of the israeli offensive into gaza , and around 3,000 have been wounded .
palestinian health ministry officials say at least 195 of the victims are children .
israel has so far lost seven soldiers and four civilians in the conflict .
the eu has also warned israel that the offensive was tarnishing its image , german news agency dpa reports .
" we have come to israel in order to advance the initiative for a humanitarian ceasefire and i will tell you , mr president , that you have a serious problem with international advocacy , and that israel 's image is being destroyed , " eu foreign affairs commissioner benita ferrero-waldner told israeli president shimon peres during the visit of an eu delegation in the region .
but mr peres retorted that israel was fighting other wars and a public image one was not among them .
" europe must open its eyes .
we are not in the business of public relations or improving our image .
we are fighting against terror , and we have every right to defend our citizens , " he told an eu ministerial delegation , afp reports .
south sudan accuses sudan of bombing civilian camp amid fears of war .
published : november 10 , 2011 .
civilians fled as bombs fell on a camp for displaced people in south sudan on thursday , and president salva kiir accused the sudanese government of planning to invade his newly independent nation .
less than six months after south sudan broke away from sudan , an act that was the culmination of a peace accord to end decades of civil war , tensions between the neighbors are crystallizing into fears of direct confrontation .
speaking in south sudan's capital , juba , mr . kiir denounced the sudanese government for threatening what he called a "military invasion" of south sudan , and he rejected accusations by the sudanese government that his country was arming sudanese rebels as "utterly baseless and malicious . " .
mr . kiir has also accused the sudanese government of bombing the south sudanese area of guffa in recent days , killing at least seven people and potentially moving the insurgencies on both sides of the border closer to an international conflict .
the united states issued a statement on thursday condemning "in the strongest possible terms" what it called "negative developments" between the nations , particularly the airstrike by the sudanese forces .
"the provocative aerial bombardments near the border increase the potential of direct confrontation between sudan and south sudan , " the american statement said .
sudan has denied striking south sudanese territory .
nevertheless , on thursday afternoon an antonov bomber dropped four bombs on the south sudanese area of yida , hitting a refugee camp of roughly 21 , 000 people , some of them northern sudanese who had crossed the border since the rebellion in sudan began .
according to an aid worker with knowledge of the event , two bombs fell on an airstrip , one hit a school and one landed on a market , but did not detonate .
there were varying reports of casualties , but none could be confirmed .
while the two nations continue to discuss how to split lucrative oil revenues and the fate of the contested region of abyei , a spreading rebellion inside sudan has prompted the sudanese government to accuse the south of providing military support to the rebels .
last week , the sudanese government lodged a formal complaint with the united nations security council , arguing that south sudan was trying to start a border war .
"we don't have any intention to go to war again , but it is now up to the southern government to either strengthen its state without hostility , or to disturb us , " said a sudanese government spokesman , rabie a . atti .
"if they come to war , they will lose a lot . " .
many residents in the sudanese provinces of southern kordofan and blue nile fought alongside the south during its civil war with the north .
but the 2005 peace treaty placed the two provinces in sudan's territory , leaving south sudan to hold a referendum to decide its own fate .
in january , the south sudanese voted almost unanimously to secede from the rest of the country .
their fellow combatants in southern kordofan and blue nile remained on the other side of the border , and an armed rebellion soon began .
"we are ready to fight and continue until we reach khartoum , " the sudanese capital , said one of the rebel leaders , abdel aziz al - hilu , in a september interview .
"we are prepared for a protracted war , a long war , " he added , "in order to see this regime ousted . " .
in return , the sudanese military has clamped down hard on the rebellion , filling the skies over southern kordofan and blue nile with antonov bombers , some of which have flown over south sudanese territory , too .
a satellite imaging project organized by the enough project , an advocacy group , has published what it says is evidence of mass graves in the rebellious regions , and the united nations has said the military activity could amount to war crimes .
the united states , a close partner of south sudan , had made strong overtures to the government in sudan , saying that if it cooperated peacefully with south sudan's transition to independence , economic sanctions on the country could be lifted .
but last week , president obama seemed to change his mind , calling for sanctions to be extended over what he called "hostile" actions on the part of the sudanese government that posed an "unusual and extraordinary threat" to american foreign policy .
"they promised us a lot of things ; nothing actually implemented , " said mr . atti , the sudanese government spokesman .
"it's unfair . " .
south sudan - or sudan - can ill afford a new war .
the economies of both nations are in a delicate state , with sudan suffering from a loss of oil income since south sudan's independence , and protests springing up in the streets of khartoum early this year .
as for south sudan , it is one of the least developed countries in the world .
furthermore , it faces a number of internal rebellions itself , particularly in provinces near the border , and it has accused the sudanese government of backing militias there .
"the overall view is that they have to exist with the other side , " said aly verjee , a senior researcher at the rift valley institute .
"even if you don't trust them so much , and if they are meddling in your own sovereign territory , there is a lot riding on that . " .
an israeli mortar strike that killed about 40 palestinians sheltering in a un school tuesday brought new urgency to diplomatic efforts to end israel 's military onslaught in the gaza strip , as the un security council met to discuss the crisis .
with the conflict now having taken more than 600 lives and aid agencies warning of a deepening humanitarian crisis in gaza-where large areas are without power and water .
israel said early wednesday that it would suspend attacks in some areas so a " humanitarian corridor " could be created to deliver vital supplies .
the israeli army said the un school in the jabaliya refugee camp was hit when troops responded to a mortar attack from the grounds and that the dead included a number of hamas militants .
a military spokesman said he had no information on whether troops had identified the hundreds of civilians in the school compound before they returned fire .
the carnage appeared to intensify international efforts to arrange a cease-fire after 11 days of a punishing israeli offensive against hamas , just as deadly strikes on civilians in previous conflicts with guerrillas in lebanon raised pressure on israel to halt hostilities .
in the 2006 lebanon war , 28 lebanese civilians were killed in an israeli bombing in the village of qana , and a shelling that killed more than 100 lebanese sheltering in a un compound in the same village hastened the end of a major israeli assault on hezbollah in 1996 .
at the security council on tuesday , french foreign minister bernard kouchner urged support for a cease-fire plan announced in egypt by president hosni mubarak and french president nicolas sarkozy .
u.s. secretary of state condoleezza rice welcomed the initiative but told the council that any agreement must halt rocket attacks from gaza and arms smuggling into the hamas-ruled territory .
israel has insisted that any truce must ensure that hamas can not re-arm .
the mortar strike in jabaliya was the second attack on a school run by the un relief and works agency , or unrwa .
in an earlier airstrike , three cousins who had taken refuge with hundreds of other people in a un school were killed .
an israeli army spokesman said he had no information about the incident .
shifa hospital , gaza 's main medical center , said 42 people were killed in the jabaliya school , where more than 300 palestinians had taken shelter from fighting around their homes .
the un said earlier that it had confirmed 30 dead and 55 wounded , 15 critically .
" there 's nowhere safe in gaza , " said john ging , the head of unrwa in gaza , after the first school was hit .
" everyone here is terrorized and traumatized . " .
the un said some 14,000 palestinians displaced from their homes were in emergency shelters .
unrwa spokesman christopher gunness said that the schools hit were clearly marked with a un flag and that the gps coordinates of all un installations in gaza had been given some time ago to the israelis .
he said unrwa wants an impartial probe of the israeli strike that could also determine whether militants had used the school for a mortar attack .
israeli foreign minister tzipi livni told reporters she was unfamiliar with details of the jabaliya incident but " unfortunately , [ hamas militants ] are hiding among civilians . " .
mohammad awad , hospitalized with shrapnel wounds in the legs and face , said he had come to the school with his family after his house was destroyed in the bombing of a neighboring home of a hamas leader .
he said he and other men had been sitting in the schoolyard when shells hit the compound .
" i saw bodies flying and people torn to pieces , " he said .
majed hamdan , an associated press photographer , said that at the local hospital , " i saw women and men-parents-slapping their faces in grief , screaming , some of them collapsed to the floor .
they knew their children were dead . " .
umm ibrahim , a hospitalized woman , said she had lost an 8-year-old daughter and two sons , 11 and 14. she said she had come to the school after a phone warning from the israelis that the family house would be struck because one son was a hamas militant .
" we escaped death in our house , but it pursued us to the school , " she said .
" what can we do ?
where should we go ? " .
in an earlier israeli strike in the zeitoun neighborhood of gaza city , at least 12 members of the extended daya family were killed when their house collapsed after it was hit by missiles , medical officials and a surviving relative said .
other family members were missing and feared dead in the rubble .
the army said it was checking the report .
south sudan : "sudan bombed refugee camp" .
published on : 11 november 2011 - 11 : 25am .
a refugee camp in south sudan's unity state was bombed on thursday , south sudan officials and witnesses said , threatening to raise tensions with sudan .
sudan's armed forces denied they carried out the strike .
south sudan's president salva kiir talked of sudan's "pending invasion" of its neighbour .
violence along the poorly defined border since south sudan's independence in july has strained ties between the two nations .
they have accused one another of backing rebel groups on their sides of the border .
a reporter heard a large explosion in the yida refugee camp , then saw a crater about two metres wide , an unexploded bomb wedged in the side of a school building and a white aircraft flying north .
witnesses said there were three further explosions at 3 p . m .
yida is a camp of about 20 , 000 refugees from the nuba mountains region of south kordofan , a state north of the border where rebels have been fighting sudan's army since june .
the camp is less than 25 kilometres from the border with sudan .
there were no immediate reports of any casualties .
khartoum denies .
taban deng , the governor of unity state , accused khartoum of carrying out the attack .
"these people ( khartoum ) should be taken to book .
they should adhere to international laws and regulations , " deng told reporters in bentiu .
"the refugees need to be safe and need to be protected .
they ran away from war .
they should not be pursued inside the territory of south sudan , " he said .
al - sawarmi khalid , spokesman for sudan's armed forces , said sudan had not bombed anywhere in south sudan's territory .
"south sudan is a state in the united nations .
we respect international law , and it's impossible that we would do that , " he said .
south sudan split off into a separate country in july after voting overwhelmingly for secession in a january referendum , the culmination of a 2005 peace deal that ended decades of war between north and south .
fighting in blue nile state .
fire crackled in the dry grass around the crater about 100 metres away from an aid agency compound in yida camp .
"they ( khartoum ) don't want any life in the nuba mountains , and now they are expanding the war to the south sudan republic , " said yousif ismail , a refugee from the nuba mountains .
fighting has broken out in sudan's blue nile state this year .
blue nile and south kordofan are home to tens of thousands of fighters who sided with the south during the war but were left in sudan when south sudan seceded , analysts say .
khartoum's smoke screens .
last week , khartoum submitted its second complaint to the un security council , accusing south sudan of supplying anti - aircraft and anti - tank missiles , ammunition , landmines and mortars to the insurgents .
kiir denied those claims in a statement on thursday , calling them "smoke screens to mask khartoum's own activities in support of the armed dissident groups that are fighting its proxy war against the republic of south sudan" .
the accusations were being used to justify sudan's "pending invasion of the south , " kiir said .
the two countries have yet to agree on how much the new nation will pay to use sudan's oil pipelines and other facilities , which south sudan depends on to export crude .
they also dispute control of the abyei region .
some 2 million people died in the north - south civil war , waged for all but a few years since 1955 over religion , ideology , ethnicity and oil .
the civilian death toll in gaza increased dramatically today , with reports of more than 40 palestinians killed after missiles exploded outside a un school where hundreds of people were sheltering from the continuing israeli offensive .
two israeli tank shells struck the school in jabaliya refugee camp , spraying shrapnel on people inside and outside the building , according to news agency reports .
the medical director of the hospital in jabaliya told the guardian 41 bodies had been brought in so far and more could be on the way .
reuters journalists filmed bodies scattered on the ground amid pools of blood and torn shoes and clothes .
in addition to the dead , several dozen people were wounded , hospital officials said .
the israeli military said it was looking into the reports .
a united nations official in gaza said the school was clearly marked with a un flag and its location had been reported to israeli authorities .
john ging , director of operations in gaza for unrwa , the united nations relief and works agency , said that three artillery shells landed at the perimeter of the school where 350 people were taking shelter .
" of course it was entirely inevitable if artillery shells landed in that area there would be a high number of casualties , " he said .
asked whether there were hamas militants in the area at the time of the attack , ging said it was the scene of clashes " so there 's an intense military and militant activity in that area . " .
he said un staff vetted palestinians seeking shelter at their facilities to make sure militants were not taking advantage of them. " so far we 've not had violations by militants of our facilities , " he said .
ging called for an independent investigation of the strikes near un facilities .
" i saw a lot of women and children wheeled in , " fares ghanem , a hospital official told the associated press .
" a lot of the wounded were missing limbs and a lot of the dead were in pieces . " .
majed hamdan , an ap photographer , who rushed to the scene shortly after the attacks , said many children were among the dead .
" i saw women and men parents slapping their faces in grief , screaming , some of them collapsed to the floor .
they knew their children were dead , " he said .
" in the morgue , most of the killed appeared to be children .
in the hospital , there was n't enough space for the wounded . " .
elsewehere , at least 12 members of an extended family , including seven young children , were killed in an air strike on their house in gaza city .
the bodies of the daya family were pulled from the rubble of a house in gaza city 's zeitoun district after it was hit by two israeli missiles .
the dead included seven children aged from one to 12 years , three women and two men .
nine other people were believed to be trapped in the rubble .
hours earlier , three young men - all cousins - died when the israelis bombed another un school , the asma primary school in gaza city .
they were among about 400 people who sought shelter there after fleeing their homes in beit lahiya in northern gaza .
the un , which said the school in jabaliya was clearly marked , said it was " strongly protesting these killings to the israeli authorities and is calling for an immediate and impartial investigation " .
" where it is found that international humanitarian law has been violated , those responsible must be held to account .
under international law , installations such as schools , health centres and un facilities should be protected from attack .
well before the current fighting , the un had given to the israeli authorities the gps co-ordinates of all its installations in gaza , including asma elementary school . " .
the killings take the total toll in palestinian lives since the israelis launched their assault on the gaza strip 11 days ago to above 600 .
doctors at gaza hospitals say that at least one-fifth of the victims are children and a large number of women are among the dead .
israel continues to insist that the bulk of those killed are hamas and islamic jihad fighters , although its claim to be going to extraordinary lengths to target only " terrorists " has been undermined by one of its own tanks firing on a building being used by israeli troops , killing four .
the sharp spike in the number of civilian casualties came as israeli troops and tanks moved into gaza 's second largest city , khan younis , for the first time today , supported by intensive artillery strikes as the military pledged to press on with its attack .
in a separate attack earlier in the day , three palestinians were killed in an air strike on another school run by unwra , the un relief agency .
nine israelis , including three civilians hit by rocket fire , have been killed in the conflict .
at least five rockets fired from gaza landed in israel today , including one that hit the town of gadera , 17 miles from tel aviv , police said .
a three-year-old girl was wounded .
the heaviest fighting has been in northern gaza , with witnesses reporting wave after wave of bombing strikes across the north of the territory accompanied by gunfire from helicopters and artillery from land and sea .
thousands of palestinians have been ordered to leave their homes or forced to flee the fighting .
in shajaiyeh , east of gaza city , israeli troops seized control of three apartment blocks and set up gun positions on the rooftops .
residents were locked in their homes and soldiers confiscated their mobile phones , neighbours said .
three of the four israeli soldiers killed by friendly fire died when a tank mistakenly fired on a building where the soldiers had taken up positions .
there was heavy artillery fire to cover the evacuation of 24 soldiers who were injured , including the commander of the golani infantry brigade , one of israel 's key fighting forces .
israel 's defence minister , ehud barak , said his country 's troops would continue their operation despite mounting palestinian casualties and growing international calls for a ceasefire .
" hamas has so far sustained a very heavy blow from us , but we have yet to achieve our objective , and therefore the operation continues , " barak said .
the israeli foreign minister , tzipi livni , said the offensive was intended to change permanently the shape of israel 's conflict with hamas .
" when israel is targeted , israel is going to retaliate , " she said .
israel has rejected calls for a ceasefire .
the military said it had bombed more smuggling tunnels across the border with egypt , in the south , and hit more than 40 other sites across gaza including buildings storing weapons and rocket launching areas .
in gaza , mahmoud zahar , the most senior leader of hamas in the strip and a hardliner in the movement , appeared on the party 's al-aqsa television station and gave a defiant speech threatening attacks not only in gaza but elsewhere .
" the zionists have legitimised the killing of their children by killing our children .
they have legitimised the killing of their people all over the world by killing our people , " zahar said .
he urged hamas fighters to " crush your enemy " .
another hamas figure , a recognised military spokesman called abu ubaida , said thousands of hamas fighters were waiting in gaza to take on the israeli military , and that rocket attacks would increase .
more than 40 were fired into southern israel yesterday , including one that landed in an empty kindergarten , which , like all schools near the gaza border , has been closed since the conflict began .
israeli police said a total of 520 rockets had been fired in the past 11 days of fighting .
israeli troops are now deployed in and around the major urban areas of gaza , particularly to the north , in beit hanoun , beit lahiya and jabaliya .
using leaflets , telephone calls and radio announcements , they have ordered residents in many areas to leave their homes , forcing at least 15,000 palestinians to flee to safety elsewhere .
at least 5,000 are staying in 11 different un schools and shelters .
the un said more than 1 million gazans were still without electricity or water and that it was increasingly difficult for staff to distribute aid or reach the injured .
it said more industrial diesel was needed to reopen the strip 's sole power plant , which has been shut for a week .
ten transformers have been damaged in the fighting .
more wheat grain is needed for food handouts , and the un said karni , the main commercial crossing , should be reopened to allow it in .
four ambulances and three mobile clinics were destroyed when bombs hit the headquarters of the union of health care committees in gaza city .
john holmes , the un emergency relief coordinator , said gaza represented an " increasingly alarming " humanitarian crisis , and that the territory was running low on clean water , power , food , medicine and other supplies since israel began its offensive .
israeli leaders claim there is no humanitarian crisis .
sudan bombs south sudanese refugee camp , reports say .
11 / 10 / 11 02 : 39 pm et .
military aircraft from sudan crossed the new international border with south sudan and dropped bombs thursday in and around a camp filled with refugees , officials said .
a government official initially reported deaths , but an american activist who spoke to aid workers at the camp later said there were no casualties .
there was no immediate comment from the sudanese government in khartoum on thursday , as deadly fighting broke out in the sudanese state of south kordofan between the military and forces loyal to south sudan , according to official sudanese media .
meanwhile , the violence in and near the yida refugee camp , located 10 miles ( 15 kilometers ) south of the border , came one day after bombings were reported in another region of south sudan , an attack that provoked strong condemnation from the u . s . state department .
the president of south sudan , which became the world's newest country only four months ago , said he fears the khartoum - based government intends to invade the south soon .
"whatever allegations khartoum labels against the republic of south sudan are baseless , but intended to justify his pending invasion of the south , " president salva kiir said .
he later added : "we are committed to peaceful resolutions to any conflict but we will never allow our sovereignty to be violated by anybody . " .
the violence is especially troubling given the history between the two sides : the black african tribes of south sudan and the mainly arab north battled two civil wars over more than five decades , and some 2 million died in the latest war , from 1983 - 2005 .
a peace deal ended the war and south sudan became its own country in july after a successful independence referendum .
but there have been lingering disputes over border demarcation and oil - sharing revenues .
ryan boyette , a former aid worker who lives in sudan who is now leading a team of 15 citizen journalists , said he talked to five aid workers in the yida camp , all of whom said that four bombs were dropped but that they caused no casualties .
boyette said a u . n . helicopter had landed on a nearby airstrip right as the first bomb hit .
one of the bombs landed in a school yard where about 300 students were attending class , but the bomb did not explode , boyette said , citing aid workers at the camp .
aleem siddique , a u . n . spokesman in south sudan , said : "we're concerned for the safety of civilians in the area following reports of explosions and we are liaising with the authorities . " .
jonathan hutson , a spokesman for the u . s . advocacy group the enough project , said aid workers inside the yida refugee camp said at least one bomb landed in the camp , and three or four fell outside it .
the aid workers or their groups could not be named for security reasons , hutson said .
hutson said at least 15 , 000 refugees who fled violence in sudan are living in the yida camp .
they walked at least seven days to reach the camp , he said .
miabek lang , the commissioner of pariang county in south sudan's unity state , said earlier that 12 people were killed and 20 were wounded in thursday's bombing .
lang could not be reached again for clarification on the conflicting reports .
the wednesday bombings in upper nile state sparked condemnation from the u . s . state department , which said the "unacceptable and unjustified" attacks increase the potential of conflict between sudan and south sudan .
south sudan's president said thursday that seven people were killed in those bombings .
john prendergast , the co - founder of the enough project , said the regime in khartoum , sudan's capital , is attempting to provoke south sudan into restarting a war .
"the regime's end game is to either capture south sudan's oil fields along their common border , or achieve a stronger negotiating position on shared oil revenues and border demarcation , " prendergast said .
"this provocation must be countered by the full force of the international community , or else a massive war could unfold . " .
south sudan's oil reserves must be pumped through pipelines that run through sudan .
splitting the oil revenues has long been a major sticking point between the two sides .
another major issue is the demarcation of the border .
though the countries are now separate an official border has not yet been laid down .
sudan has accused south sudan of arming pro - south sudan groups in its territory .
but kiir said thursday that the accusations from khartoum are "smoke screens" to mask sudan's support of armed groups fighting a proxy war against south sudan .
his comments came as sudan said an unspecified number of rebels , soldiers and civilians were killed in clashes in the border state of south kordofan in the town of talodi on thursday .
sudanese army spokesman khaled saad , quoted in the official news agency suna , said the military had repelled a planned attack by forces loyal to the southern movement , or sudan people's liberation army , who hail from a minority ethnic group now in control of much of south sudan .
the un has disputed claims that hamas militants fired mortars from the gaza school that has suffered the deadliest attack of the war with israel .
three shells hit fakhura , a girls elementary school in the jabalya refugee camp in northern gaza , at about 3pm on tuesday ( 12am yesterday ) , according to un relief and works agency spokesman christopher gunness .
at least 43 people were killed and 55 wounded in the school , where hundreds of palestinians had sought refuge from the fighting , pushing the palestinian death toll above 680 since the conflict began on december 27 .
two people were killed when an artillery shell hit a un school in the southern city of khan younis .
three people also died in an air strike on another un school in gaza city 's shati refugee camp in the centre of the strip .
the carnage appeared to intensify international efforts to arrange a ceasefire - just as deadly strikes on civilians in previous conflicts in lebanon raised pressure on israel to halt hostilities .
israel moved quickly to explain the attack on the jabalya school , saying its forces had been fired on first .
the casualties included hamas militants imad and hassan abu askar , both of whom had fired mortar shells at troops from the school , military officials said .
however , john ging , the top un refugee official in gaza , said un staff and palestinian families in the school compound had been screened for weapons , and he disputed israel 's claim that mortars were fired from inside .
" as far as we are concerned , that is not true , but if israel has evidence of that they need to provide it to an independent inquiry , " mr ging said .
he added : " there 's nowhere safe in gaza .
everyone here is terrorised and traumatised . " .
speaking after an initial investigation last night , mr gunness denied militants were at the school .
" we are 99.9 per cent sure that there were no militants or militant activities in the school and the school compound . " .
mr gunness said earlier that schools were clearly marked with a un flag and that the gps co-ordinates of all un installations in gaza had been given some time ago to the israelis .
he said unrwa wanted an impartial probe of the israeli shelling that could also determine whether militants had used the school for a mortar attack .
mohammad awad , in hospital with shrapnel wounds to the legs and face , said he had come to the school with his family after his house was destroyed in the bombing of a neighbouring home of a hamas leader .
he and other men had been sitting in the schoolyard when shells hit the compound .
" i saw bodies flying and people torn to pieces , " he said .
umm ibrahim said she had lost an eight-year-old daughter and two sons , 11 and 14 .
she had come to the school after a phone warning from the israelis that the family house would be struck because one son was a hamas militant .
" we escaped death in our house , but it pursued us to the school , " she said .
" what can we do ?
where should we go ? " .
although israel said its return fire landed outside the school , witnesses described a series of blasts , which israeli officials said suggested militants had rigged the building with explosives .
" we face a very delicate situation where hamas is using the citizens of gaza as a protective vest , " said military spokesman brigadier general avi benayahu .
the incident renewed questions about israel 's ability to wage a precision war in densely populated gaza even as its forces pushed deeper into the narrow coastal territory .
heavy clashes continued in the north yesterday and airstrikes across the densely populated coastal strip .
an airstrike in the gaza city neighbourhood of zeitun , where much of the heavy fighting has taken place since ground forces invaded on saturday , left one armed militant dead and three wounded , medics said .
clashes were continuing in zeitun , and there were reports of airstrikes on the southern cities of khan younis and rafah .
one rocket made the deepest strike yet into israel - about 32km from tel aviv .
samaritan's purse refugee camp bombed , allegedly by sudanese government .
november 14 , 2011|12 : 35 pm .
the government of sudan bombed the samaritan's purse refugee camp in yida , south sudan , on thursday , nov . 10 , alleges the nondenominational evangelical christian organization .
the camp , located in the oil - rich northern region of yida , consists of over 24 , 000 refugees who have fled the heavy fighting of sudan's south kordofan region .
the camp at yida is an area of thick bush just about ten miles south of the generally recognized border between south sudan and sudan .
the bombing was a result of the heightening tensions between sudan and south sudan .
south sudan gained its independence from sudan 6 months ago , ending one of africa's longest civil wars .
sudan accuses south sudan of arming sudanese rebels in the border states of southern kordofan and the blue nile , according to the new york times .
samaritan's purse provides aid , both spiritually and physically , to those in need .
the organization uses dc - 3 planes to deliver food to the refugees of yida .
the planes deliver six to seven loads a day , three days a week .
the organization has dropped 420 tons of food staples to the refugees , and is in connection with the u . n . 's world food program .
according to a samaritan's purse press release , sudan armed forces planes dropped four bombs at 3 : 20 p . m . in the region thursday .
ken isaacs , vice president of programs and government relations at samaritan's purse , told the christian post that the bombing as a "terrifying event for all of the staff and the people in our community . " .
one bomb hit a 200 - student schoolhouse but did not explode , another bomb hit the community marketplace and two others hit the outskirts of the camp .
the bombs did not do any damage and , according to isaacs , one bomb landed just 5 feet away from a boy , but did not explode .
" [ the ] minetech international ( mti ) explosive ordinance disposal ( eod ) team removed the bomb from the yida village school and moved it to an isolated location for disposal at a later date , " according to the united nations mine action coordination center of south sudan .
"i urge the united states and the international community to enforce a no - fly zone in the area to protect not only the innocent civilians there but also those who are trying to help them , " samaritan's purse president franklin graham said in a press release .
"my prayer is that the world will not just sit by and watch and hope for the best like they did during rwanda , where close to a million people were massacred .
we need to make it clear to the government of sudan that attacks on innocent people will not be tolerated , " the evangelist said .
the white house has also condemned the bombing .
in a press statement released nov . 10 , the white house urged the government to stop the bombings immediately .
"we urge the government of south sudan to exercise restraint in responding to this provocation to prevent further escalation of hostilities , " read the press release .
the refugee camp had just received food rations when the bombing took place .
graham said these bombings are a tactic reminiscent of sudan's civil war , used to injure and kill as many as possible .
the food is delivered , the attackers wait for people to gather to collect the food , and then they bomb the masses .
according to the new york times , a satellite - imaging program reveals a build - up of sudanese troops near the south sudan border in the blue nile region .
images also reportedly reveal upgraded air bases recently captured by government forces .
sudan's government denies a connection to the bombing .
sudanese government spokesperson rabie a . atti defended the government sunday , saying , "we are only securing our border . " .
susan rice , u . s . ambassador for the united nations , said the sudan government "blatantly lied" about the bombing , adding that such a lie proves very disturbing to the united states and many members of the u . n . security council .
as isaacs of samaritan's purse contends , sudan's government denied any bombing in "south sudan . " .
"what do they consider to be south sudan ? " isaacs questioned , noting that there are elements of a border dispute , with yida being only 10 miles from the border .
describing yida as a "very insecure" area , isaacs expressed worry for the future of yida's refugees .
"the conflict and the insecurity are going to grow .
it is going to get worse before it gets better , " he said .
"there is a need to relocate the people .
the areas that have been offered for relocation are not agreeable , " he added .
according to isaacs , food supplies are rapidly dwindling .
the refugees received a three - day ration on oct . 29 , a one - day ration on nov . 7th and a one - day ration on nov . 11 .
"we are looking to world food programme and the unhcr to fully respond to the needs [ of the people ] .
we appreciate what they're doing but we remain deeply concerned for the people , " isaacs said .
t-mobile has officially announce that they will launch the new rim blackbery curve 8900 sometime in mid-february .
previously , the date of february 11 was leaked .
the blackberry curve 8900 has a full-qwerty keyboard , gps , wi-fi and 512mhz processor .
it looks like the device does not support 3g but does have world quad band support .
the 3.2-megapixel camera has image stabilization , digital zoom , flash and the ability to record video and play video , a music player , a 3.5mm stereo headset jack and headset , and a hot-swappable microsd/sdhc memory card slot with a 256mb card inserted that accept up to 16 gb .
t-mobile customers can get mobile coverage and unlimited nationwide wi-fi calling with t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot calling .
t - mobile will carry the blackberry q10 , business registration begins april 29th .
posted apr 24th , 2013 at 12 : 28 pm .
more details on the blackberry q10's release in the us are starting to surface .
t - mobile confirmed in an email that its business customers will have the opportunity to register for the device starting next week on april 29th , with availability and pricing details to follow "at a later date . " .
general consumers will likely have to wait a little longer , if t - mobile follows the same launch strategy that it did with the z10 .
of course , registration doesn't actually equate to pre - orders or actually purchasing the phone yet - - all we've heard from official channels is that it'll be coming towards the end of may - - but it's still a solid confirmation that qwerty fans will at least be able to get their bb10 on in the very near future .
t-mobile usa has just confirmed the numerous rumors that it will introduce the latest model in the blackberry curve series next month .
" with rich multimedia capabilities , exceptional mobile email and messaging features , enhanced web browsing , a premium phone and easy access to social networking communities , including facebook , flickr , and myspace.com , the blackberry curve 8900 helps you make the most of a busy lifestyle that spans well beyond normal business hours , " said mark guibert , vice president , corporate marketing , research in motion .
an overview of the blackberry curve 8900 .
the blackberry curve 8900 -- formerly known as the javelin -- will have a full qwerty keyboard and a 2.44-inch , hvga + ( 480 by 360 pixel ) display .
it will be the thinnest and lightest blackberry with a full keyboard .
this quad-band gsm smartphone will not have 3g , but it will include wi-fi b/g and bluetooth .
it will support t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot calling service -- which uses wi-fi voip -- as well as unlimited nationwide calling to five people with the myfaves service .
this smartphone will also have a 512 mhz processor , gps receiver , a 3.2 mpx camera , and a 1400 mahr battery .
it will include a microsd card slot and be bundled with a 256 mb card .
more information on the blackberry curve 8900 is available on rim 's website .
t-mobile usa says it will release this smartphone some time next month. rumors say that the debut could be as early as feb. 11 .
pricing for this model is not yet known .
rumors have been floating for weeks now and we knew the 8900 would be coming sometime in early '09 and tonight t-mobile has made it official .
however , the 8900 aka curve ii aka javelin will not be hitting store shelves on the 11th or 18th according to the press release .
t-mobile is being coy and saying it 's coming sometime this month .
it could happen on those dates , but t-mobile is n't confirming anything today .
no word on price either .
1official specs after the jump .
rim and t-mobile usa have finally gone official with the blackberry curve 8900 , just one day after the smartphone was seen in one of t-mo 's retail stores .
so now we know for sure that the new curve will be commercially available starting february , although an exact release date and a price were not given yet .
the 8900 is the thinnest blackberry ever built ( only 13.5 mm ) , and it 's also among the best looking smartphones to come form rim .
add wi-fi , gps , a 3.2mp autofocus camera and a nice 480 x 360 pixels display to that and you have a really cool handset .
the only thing that the curve 8900 is missing is 3g , but since t-mobile does n't have a nationwide 3g coverage yet , i guess this is not such a big problem .
while waiting for the new berry to be available , you can enter a t-mobile contest here , and maybe you 'll win one for free .
t-mobile is bolstering its smartphone portfolio by picking up research in motion ( nsdq : rimm ) 's next-generation blackberry curve .
the curve 8900 is the latest refresh of the popular curve line , and it 's the thinnest full-qwerty blackberry ever .
the smartphone also takes some design cues from the blackberry bold , and it has a titanium-colored finish with chrome highlights .
the handset should be able to multitask smoothly , as it 's powered by a 512-mhz processor. like other blackberry handsets , the curve 8900 should have strong messaging capabilities .
users can get personal and corporate push e-mail from up to 10 accounts , and there 's built-in instant messaging .
some users may be disappointed that the new curve can not use t-mobile 's growing 3g network , but the edge connection is more than capable of sending and receiving e-mails on the go .
there 's also integrated wi-fi , and the curve 8900 can be used for unlimited wi-fi calling with t-mobile 's hotspot calling service .
" with rich multimedia capabilities , exceptional mobile e-mail and messaging features , enhanced web browsing , a premium phone , and easy access to social networking communities , including facebook , flickr , and myspace.com , the blackberry curve 8900 helps you make the most of a busy lifestyle that spans well beyond normal business hours , " said mark guibert , vp of rim 's corporate marketing , in a statement .
the handset will come with built-in gps that can be used for location-based searches and navigation .
the bluetooth version 2.0 can be used to pair headsets , as well as for stereo bluetooth headphones .
it packs a 3.2-megapixel camera that also can be used to record video .
rim has been making strides with its multimedia capabilities , and the curve 8900 is no exception .
the handset will be able to play multiple types of audio , and video should look crisp with the display 's 480-by-360 resolution .
users will not have to worry about running out of storage space , as the smartphone comes with a microsd slot that 's expandable up to 16 gb .
t-mobile said the new curve will be available in february , but the company did not give a price .
t - mobile adds blackberry q10 to its 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
may 14 , 2013 .
t - mobile continues to add to its growing line - up of 4g lte devices by partnering with blackberry to bring customers the blackberry q10 .
t - mobile is the only major u . s . wireless company to offer the q10 with no annual service contract plus unlimited talk , text and web on a fast , nationwide 4g network .
today , business customers can work directly with their b2b sales rep to order their blackberry q10 .
pricing for business customers begins at $119 . 99 with qualifying plans .
the blackberry q10 is expected to be available for t - mobile consumer customers in june for $99 . 99 down with 24 equal monthly payments of $20 for well - qualified buyers for 0% apr o . a . c .
the smartphone will be available in t - mobile retail stores , via www . t - mobile . com and through select dealers and national retail stores .
consumer customers interested in the q10 can register at http : / / explore . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
device features .
the new smartphone combines features blackberry is known for - the blackberry qwerty keyboard and security - with a 3 . 1" touch screen , the power of the blackberry 10 platform and 4g lte and hd voice capabilities for a premium customer experience .
blackberry hub helps manage personal and professional conversations , bbm messages , social media updates , or notifications with the ability to "peek" into the hub from anywhere .
following research in motion 's blackberry bold and blackberry storm entry into the u.s. smartphone market , t-mobile 's blackberry curve 8900 is the thinnest and lightest qwerty device of the burgeoning blackberry line of smartphones .
the new device features built-in gps and wi-fi supporting voice and data in addition to the now usual smartphone lineup of a web browser , music player and camera .
t-mobile usa plans it own exclusive blackberry with the introduction of the blackberry curve 8900 in february .
at and t already has its own deal with blackberry maker research in motion to offer the blackberry bold , while verizon features the blackberry storm as a smartphone .
the new hybrid , quad-band curve 8900 is the thinnest and lightest qwerty device of the burgeoning blackberry line of smartphones .
in addition to the popular keyboard , the device features built-in gps and support of location-based services , built-in wi-fi 802.11b/g supporting voice and data , and support for t-mobile 's unlimited hot spot calling service .
in addition , the device has a 3.2-megapixel camera , a music player and a hot-swappable microsd/sdhc memory card slot with a 256mb card .
the new curve also comes with support for memory cards up to 16gb .
as a quad-band world phone , the blackberry curve 8900 supports international roaming , extending the ability to stay connected while traveling abroad .
rim claims the 8900 's screen is the highest resolution available on a blackberry smartphone .
the device also comes with a 512mhz next-generation processor , although t-mobile plans to wed the device to its 2g edge network .
like other high-end blackberrys , the curve 8900 has enhanced web browsing and access to social networking communities , including facebook , flickr and myspace .
neither rim nor t-mobile has announced u.s. pricing plans for the curve 8900 , but the device , which is already on the market in canada , sells over the internet at prices ranging from $ 500 to $ 550 .
t - mobile usa announces blackberry q10 availability .
april 24 , 2013 .
t - mobile announced today that the blackberry q10 smartphone device will be added to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
beginning april 29th , business customers interested in registering for the blackberry can do so at .
http : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
t - mobile on the blackberry q10 .
t - mobile usa continues to add to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio with the blackberry q10 .
the blackberry q10 combines blackberry's classic qwerty keyboard and a touch screen with the power of the blackberry 10 platform that delivers all the speed and connectivity customers demand to help them keep moving .
t - mobile customers can take advantage of the blackberry q10 smartphone's premium hardware , advanced communications and multimedia features on a blazing - fast nationwide 4g network .
"with the powerful combination of blackberry's new blackberry 10 platform , the company's long - standing security features and blackberry's best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for our business customers , " said drew kelton , executive vice president of business markets at t - mobile .
great news for all t - mobile business and non - business customers as the blackberry q10 from t - mobile will be available very soon .
additional details , including availability and pricing , will be shared at a later date .
on monday , we reported on rumors that t-mobile would release the rim blackberry curve 8900 on february 11 , and while the date has not been confirmed , the carrier did go ahead and make the official product announcement on tuesday .
yes , the blackberry curve 8900 will make its way to t-mobile some time in february and is being touted as the thinnest and lightest full qwerty blackberry to date .
as expected , it will have integrated bluetooth and gps and we now know it will have built-in wi-fi as well as support for t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot calling service .
unfortunately , there is no 3g love .
there are plenty of other highlights , though , including a 3.2-megapixel camera , a 3.5mm headphone jack , a microsd/sdhc expansion slot ( supports up to 16gb cards ) , and a 512mhz processor .
pricing and an official release date were not released , but customers can sign up for alerts on t-mobile 's web site .
t - mobile confirms qwerty - based blackberry q10 availability .
blackberry fans take note as t - mobile has confirmed the availability of the qwerty - based q10 .
business customers will get first crack with registration beginning april 29th , with consumer availability coming sometime afterwards .
t - mobile says "additional details , including availability and pricing , will be shared at a later date . " .
word has it that the april 29th registration for business customers will turn into a late may launch , but we're happy with confirmation that blackberry fans have another choice in the future .
the q10 features .
3 . 1 superamoled display , 720720 resolution at 330ppi .
blackberry 10 os .
dual - core 1 . 5ghz processor .
35 - key physical qwerty keyboard .
2gb ram .
16gb internal memory .
8 megapixel rear facing camera .
1080p video recording .
2 megapixel front - facing camera .
lte , hspa+ connectivity .
nfc .
statement .
t - mobile usa continues to add to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio with the blackberry q10 .
the blackberry q10 combines blackberry's classic qwerty keyboard and a touch screen with the power of the blackberry 10 platform that delivers all the speed and connectivity customers demand to help them keep moving .
t - mobile customers can take advantage of the blackberry q10 smartphone's premium hardware , advanced communications and multimedia features on a blazing - fast nationwide 4g network .
"with the powerful combination of blackberry's new blackberry 10 platform , the company's long - standing security features and blackberry's best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for our business customers , " said drew kelton , executive vice president of business markets at t - mobile .
beginning april 29th , business customers interested in the blackberry q10 from t - mobile can register athttp : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
additional details , including availability and pricing , will be shared at a later date .
t-mobile usa , inc. and research in motion today announced that t-mobile will offer the blackberry curve 8900 to customers in february .
the announcement confirms rumors from december .
the 8900 is the thinnest full-qwerty blackberry smartphone yet .
like its predecessor , the 8320 , the 8900 is fully-featured with connectivity options including a built-in gps and wifi , something that users of t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot calling service should be excited about .
of course , the curve 8900 has an impressive list of features of its own .
it has been upgraded with a 3.2-megapixel camera with image stabilization and video compatibility .
it sports a 512mhz processor and at 480 x 360 , its the highest resolution screen available on a blackberry .
it supports microsd cards up to 16gb ( like the new sandisk memory cards announced today ) .
last , the curve 's quad-band radio , with support for international roaming , should please the jet-setter .
look for it next month at t-mobile retail stores , authorized dealers , and online .
t - mobile us confirms they will carry the blackberry q10 .
on april 24th , 2013 .
we can expect more carriers to be coming out talking about the q10 but t - mobile is the first in the us .
they just confirmed that they will carry the device though they said nothing about availability and pricing .
they did say that after april 29th business customers will be able to register for the q10 at this link .
my guess is they will open up preorders for business customers about 2 weeks before normal launch .
here is how they describe the device .
t - mobile usa continues to add to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio with the blackberry q10 .
the blackberry q10 combines blackberry's classic qwerty keyboard and a touch screen with the power of the blackberry 10 platform that delivers all the speed and connectivity customers demand to help them keep moving .
t - mobile customers can take advantage of the blackberry q10 smartphone's premium hardware , advanced communications and multimedia features on a blazing - fast nationwide 4g network .
"with the powerful combination of blackberry's new blackberry 10 platform , the company's long - standing security features and blackberry's best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for our business customers , " said drew kelton , executive vice president of business markets at t - mobile .
t-mobile usa will launch research in motion 's blackberry curve 8900 in february , further strengthening its smartphone lineup in 2009 .
the quad-band global phone has a full qwerty keyboard and built-in gps and wifi capabilities .
it also has 3.2-megapixel camera , a music player , a 3.5mm stereo headset jack and a microsd slot capable of holding up to 16gb .
the device , along with the shadow ii and rumored samsung memoir , which will carry an 8-megapixel camera , beefs up the carrier 's smartphone portfolio as it looks to expand its 3g umts network into 2009 .
t-mobile has not released a specific launch date or pricing information .
t - mobile blackberry q10 pre - order begins april 29th for business customers .
on april 24 , 2013 .
t - mobile today announced that the blackberry q10 will be added to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
beginning april 29th , business customers interested in registering for the blackberry q10 can visit http : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
additional details , including availability and pricing , will be shared at a later date .
general consumers can expect the blackberry q10 to become available later on in may .
t-mobile has announced it will be carrying the blackberry curve 8900 smartphone this february ... although it will not offer 3g data service .
u.s. mobile operator t-mobile has officially announced it will be offering the blackberry curve 8900 smartphone this february .
billed as rim 's lightest and thinnest qwerty keyboard-equipped smartphone , the blackberry curve 8900 features a 3.2 megapixel camera ( plus an additional front-facing 400 by 352-pixel video camera for video calls ) , sdhc/microsd card support for up to 16 gb of storage , integrated wi-fi 80211b/g wireless networking , and gps support .
the curve 8900 also packs a 2.44-inch 480 by 360-pixel color lcd display , and includes a handsfree speakerphone as well as bluetooth wireless device support .
according to rim , the unit offers up to 5.5 hours of talk time and as much as 15 days of standby time .
t-mobile has not revealed an official release date or pricing information for the blackberry curve 8900 , although the unit will work with t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot wi-fi based calling service .
however , the 8900 will not offer 3g connectivity : users will have to paddle along on gsm/gprs and edge connectivity .
of course , the phone will include blackberry software , including full html web browsing , blackberry maps , an enhanced media player , as well as access to corporate communications system and we hear the device will even make phone calls .
t - mobile adds blackberry q10 to its 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
posted at 10 : 04 am on may 14 , 2013 .
t - mobile has announced that the blackberry q10 is coming to their network .
this device is available for order today for business customers at a price of $119 . 99 .
consumers will be able to get their hands on the q10 beginning in june for $99 down with 20 additional monthly payments of $20 .
the q10 will be available in t - mobile retail stores , online at t - mobile . com , and at various retail partners .
interested customers can register for updates on the q10 at the link below .
well that was a neat little progression : early suspicions , followed by a purported internal leak , capped with an official announcement .
t-mobile will be adding the blackberry curve 8900 to their lineup come february .
the press release does n't get any more specific than that , but seems to lend authority to the previous leak , which indicated that the 18th would be the day .
t - mobile confirms it will carry blackberry q10 .
wednesday , april 24th , 2013 at 10 : 40 am .
for those of you who have been waiting for blackberry's new q10 handset , that wait is getting shorter .
t - mobile has announced that it will be carrying the keyboard touting q10 , with pre - registration starting on april 29th .
pricing and release dates are still tbd , but by signing up for alerts on t - mobile's website you will be one of the first to know .
if blackberry's release of the z10 to business customers first is any sign , we may very well see the same approach when it comes to releasing the q10 , meaning that normal consumers may have to wait a little longer for their chance to purchase one of the devices .
although release details are still absent , this e - mail assures us that t - mobile will in fact be carrying the q10 in the future .
the q10 has been previously rumored to be released sometime in may , which seems reasonable given the timing of t - mobile's announcement today , as well as blackberry's announcement of the device making its way to canada on may 1st .
official pr text follows below .
t - mobile today announced that the blackberry q10 will be added to its growing 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
beginning april 29th , business customers interested in registering for the blackberry q10 can visit http : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
additional details , including availability and pricing , will be shared at a later date .
t-mobile today announced the blackberry curve 8900 , the thinnest and lightest full-qwerty blackberry smartphone .
the blackberry curve 8900 features a titanium-colored finish with chrome highlights .
it combines a compact design with a full-qwerty keyboard , 512mhz processor for fast and responsive performance , and built-in gps and wi-fi ( 802.11 b/g ) connectivity .
the smartphone has a 3.2-megapixel camera with image stabilization , digital zoom , flash and the ability to record video and play video .
it also features a music player with a 3.5mm stereo headset jack and headset .
included with a 256mb memory card , consumers can purchase extra memory for the hot-swappable microsd/sdhc slot ( with support for memory cards up to 16gb ) .
the quad-band blackberry curve 8900 supports international roaming .
customers can get unlimited nationwide wi-fi calling with t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot calling service .
" the new blackberry curve 8900 features a compact and refined design that looks and feels great , " said mark guibert , vice president of research in motion .
" with rich multimedia capabilities , exceptional mobile email and messaging features , enhanced web browsing , a premium phone and easy access to social networking communities , including facebook , flickr and myspace , the blackberry curve 8900 helps you make the most of a busy lifestyle that spans well beyond normal business hours . " .
the new blackberry curve 8900 smartphone from t-mobile is anticipated to be available in february at t-mobile stores and online .
t - mobile will carry the blackberry q10 .
published april 24th 2013 - 17 : 59 .
t - mobile has announced it will carry the blackberry q10 , and business registration will begin at t - mobile . com on april 29 .
here's the official email t - mobile sent to its business customers .
the q10 ships with blackberry balance , for keeping your work and personal information separate , blackberry remember , blackberry hub and bbm video with screen share .
the bb q10 also features a 3 . 1 inch oled display , blackberry tag with nfc technology , a qwerty keyboard and an 8mp rear - facing camera .
the q10 is available with 16gb of internal storage and is 4g lte capable .
research in motion today announced that t-mobile usa will start selling the new blackberry curve 8900 smartphone to its customers .
dubbed as the thinnest and lightest qwerty blackberry , the curve 8900 will feature built-in gps with support of location-based services , wifi with voice and data support , a 3.2 megapixel camera with digital zoom , image stabilization and flash , video recording and playback , a music player , a 3.5mm stereo headset jack and a microsd/sdhc memory card slot with a 256mb card included in the box .
all this running on 512mhz processor .
t-mobile is expected to launch the blackberry curve 8900 smartphone in mid-february .
price has not been revealed .
blackberry q10 preorders launch on t - mobile april 29 .
april 24 , 2013 .
blackberry's ( nasdaq : bbry ) new q10 smartphone will be available for preorder for business customers on t - mobile's website april 29 , according to an online statement by the carrier .
the q10 will sport 4g lte connectivity , with a physical keyboard and touchscreen display .
the new smartphone will add to a growing list of t - mobile 4g lte phones , including the recent iphone , which launched on the carrier earlier this month .
drew kelton , executive vice president of business markets at t - mobile , said , "with the powerful combination of blackberry's new blackberry 10 platform , the company's long - standing security features , and blackberry's best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for our business customers . " .
t - mobile recently ran into problems selling the much - anticipated samsung galaxy s4 , pushing the online ordering date back from april 24 to april 29 .
t - mobile and blackberry haven't said when the q10 will be available , or what the price will be .
( . . . ) .
amd buys seamicro , starts selling intel - based servers .
on march 1 , 2012 at 8 : 12 am .
in an unprecedented move that suggests that there might be life in the old dog yet , amd has acquired seamicro , a company that builds high - density , low - power servers using intel cpus .
the deal cost amd $334 million ( $281m in cash ) , a fairly sizable chunk of change when you consider that its yearly profits are usually around the $400 million mark .
if you haven " t heard of seamicro before , they " re essentially a silicon valley startup built around a technology called freedom fabric , an asic ( application - specific integrated circuit ) that allows a computer to be scaled down to a motherboard the size of a deck of playing cards .
these tiny computers ( each one containing an atom or xeon cpu , some dram , and the freedom fabric asic ) are then stacked together to form very - high - density servers ( pictured above ) .
these server bricks are just 10u in size , contain up to 768 cpus , and include four gigabit ethernet switches and a load balancer .
to achieve the same kind of processing power with conventional rackmount servers you would need two full racks ( 84u ! ) of dual - socket quad - core servers and network gear .
the seamicro server bricks use a quarter of the power , too , because the custom cpu - dram - asics contain absolutely no hardware cruft that leeches power .
in short , with energy prices increasing , data center real estate as costly as ever , and the web showing no signs of slowing down , seamicro servers are really rather desirable .
more than miniaturization , though , freedom fabric is also compatible with multiple instruction sets and allows for complete hardware virtualization ; both very desirable properties in this age of cloud computing .
but why did amd buy seamicro ?
as it stands , seamicro has a tight partnership with intel , and every seamicro server uses intel chips .
according to amd , seamicro will sell intel - based servers " for the foreseeable future , " but an opteron - based solution should arrive by the end of the year .
in all likelihood , amd probably sees seamicro as an excellent way of bolstering its presence in the incredibly lucrative ( and rapidly expanding ) server market .
with seamicro , amd can deal directly with companies looking for servers , cutting out the ( very profitable ) hp , dell , or ibm middle man .
the server space is one area that amd still seems to be able compete with intel and with freedom fabric amd might once again become a compelling choice .
february 29 , 2012 , 7 : 32 p . m . et .
amd to acquire server start - up .
advanced micro devices inc . , amd +0 . 26% vowing to change the game in its longtime competition with intel corp . , intc +0 . 93% has forged a deal to buy a silicon valley start - up that takes the chip maker into the server business .
the sunnyvale , calif . , company said it will pay $334 million for seamicro inc . , a company known for products called micro servers that pack together many chips in ways that save space and energy .
such products are particularly popular among companies that buy servers in huge volumes to run popular consumer websites .
amd has long battled intel in making chips for servers , as well as pcs , but it has struggled lately in the larger systems because of late products and other issues .
both companies , meanwhile , face increasing competition from companies making lower - power chips that are based on architecture developed by arm holdings plc .
last year , hewlett - packard co . announced a partnership with calxeda inc . , a start - up making arm - based micro servers .
most chip makers avoid selling systems that use their chips , because such moves can put them in competition with their customers .
but rory read , a former lenovo group ltd . executive who became amd chief executive in august , has stressed the need for unconventional tactics against its much - larger rival .
in a briefing wednesday , amd executives stressed that the main motivation of buying seamicro was not to sell servers but to offer communications technology and other elements developed by seamicro to allow other server makers to make similar products .
"we are not intending to compete with our customers , " said lisa su , who recently joined amd to serve as senior vice president and general manager for global business units .
on the other hand , amd plans to keep supporting seamicro's existing customers by selling servers "for the foreseeable future , " ms . su said .
those systems now use intel chips .
but amd plans to also offer systems that use amd's opteron chips for servers in the second half of the year , the company said .
mr . read had already indicated that amd in the future might offer customers the choice of products that include arm technology .
seamicro , meanwhile , had indicated its technology was also designed to support arm as well as the x86 chips sold by amd and intel .
seamicro chief executive andrew feldman , who will become general manager of amd's newly created data - center server solutions business , said the company had more than one interested bidder .
but he said it was attracted by amd management's open attitude toward issues such as supporting other chip designs , as well as a desire to propagate its technology faster than a start - up can .
"we came to believe the way to grab this opportunity was the drive of a much larger company , " mr . feldman said .
the start - up , also based in sunnyvale , originally passed up intel's mainstream offering for servers , a chip called xeon that is a workhorse for companies around the around the world .
seamicro took intel's tiny , relatively low - powered atom chip--best known for use in inexpensive laptop computers called netbooks and now in smartphones--and packaged it for use in data centers .
seamicro last month held an event with intel and samsung electronics co . to detail plans to use xeon chips in its new machines .
that shift , the company said at the time , allows customers to use its machines for an array of new tasks that couldn't be addressed before , such as running web databases rather than simply serving up web pages .
mr . feldman said wednesday that amd's opteron chip would further expand the kinds of applications that would fit its technology .
jason waxman , intel's general manager for cloud computing , said it has enjoyed its relationship with seamicro and expects to keep supplying chips to the company as part of amd , while working with other makers of micro servers .
he noted that intel has also been acquiring communications - related technology so amd's motivations were understandable .
"you need a broader technology portfolio to service the needs of customers in this market , " mr . waxman said .
evercore analyst patrick wang said the acquisition was surprising but likely indicates amd's commitment to the data center and cloud computing .
"this is the next step in that direction , " mr . wang said .
"but it's a very unconventional step . " .
mr . wang said amd likely is using the purchase to acquire server intellectual property , particularly for the high - performance technology , known as a fabric , that connects all the different processors and disk drives to each other .
the approach allows data to pass more quickly and efficiently .
"supermicro is very successful right now , " he said .
amd said $281 million of the purchase price for seamicro will be in cash .
the company said the acquisition doesn't change its 2012 financial guidance and the transaction is expected to be add to earnings after 2012 .
amd to acquire server innovator seamicro .
february 29th , 2012 .
in a bold move to boost its position in next - generation servers , amd will acquire low - power server specialist seamicro for $334 million , the companies said today .
the acquisition is a disruptive one for the low - power server landscape , as seamicro has been using intel chips in its next - generation servers , which offer dramatic reductions in power and space usage .
the crown jewel in the acquisition is seamicro " s networking fabric , which allows hundreds of low - power processors to work together .
the seamicro architecture is processor - neutral , meaning it can be quickly adapted to work with amd " s technology .
" by acquiring seamicro , we are accelerating amd " s transformation into an agile , disruptive innovator capable of staking a data center leadership position , " said rory read , president and ceo , amd .
" seamicro is a pioneer in low - power server technology .
" we are clearly skating to where the puck is going , " read added .
" this is a great company with innovative ip and great talent . " .
the importance of the cloud .
amd plans to offer the first amd opteron processor - based solutions that combine amd and seamicro technology in the second half of 2012 .
the company said it remains firmly committed to its traditional server business , and will continue to invest in research and development .
but amd executives said the acquisition of seamicro will boost the company " s offerings for cloud computing providers , who are keenly focused on reducing the energy used by their armadas of servers .
" cloud data centers are the fastest growing segment of the server market , " said lisa su , senior vice president and general manager , global business units .
" the cloud has changed the dynamics of the data center and how people think about servers . " .
su said amd will offer seamicro servers with amd chips to provide continuity for existing customers .
but the primary focus will be on integrating seamicro " s fabric technology with amd processors in " building blocks " for its oem customers .
downsized " building block " .
the basic building block of the seamicro system is a credit card - sized compute block , comprised of a cpu and its chipset , dram , and a custom seamicro asic ( application specific integrated circuit ) .
seamicro " s patented i / o virtualization allows companies to save money by using fewer cables and network interface cards ( nics ) to connect to networks and storage .
seamicro " s early systems featured up to 768 intel atom cores in a 10u server .
it recently introduced a server powered by 64 intel xeon processors , providing a " brawny " offering to supplement the " wimpy " atom nodes .
one of the benefits of the amd acquisition is the ability to adapt seamicro " s technology to a broader range of workloads and applications , according the seamicro ceo andrew feldman .
" seamicro was founded to dramatically reduce the power consumed by servers , while increasing compute density and bandwidth , " said feldman , who will become general manager of amd " s newly created data center server solutions business .
" by becoming a part of amd , we will have access to new markets , resources , technology , and scale that will provide us with the opportunity to work tightly with our oem partners as we fundamentally change the server market . " .
amd acquires seamicro to grab share of microserver market .
amd's $334 million deal with seamicro is a strong move to improve within the ... .
mar 1 2012 , 2 : 35am cet .
amd has made a $334 million bet on the energy - efficient "microserver" market .
on wednesday afternoon , the company announced that they have reached a $334 million agreement , to purchase seamicro , a successful microserver manufacturer .
launched in 2007 , seamicro quickly gained attention for their ability to combine cheap , low - end processors that could handle web - centric server workloads .
the company worked closely , if not exclusively , with intel processors in recent years .
seamicro's current sm server line uses intel's atom and "sandy bridge" processors .
" by acquiring seamicro , we are accelerating amd " s transformation into an agile , disruptive innovator capable of staking a data center leadership position , " said rory read , amd's president and ceo , in today's news release .
for now , amd will continue to sell seamicro servers based on intel atom processors according to pc world .
however , amd expects to release the first seamicro servers based on amd opteron processors within the year .
amd to acquire microserver vendor seamicro - - a user of intel chips .
advanced micro devices to acquire microserver vendor seamicro for $334 million .
to date , seamicro has used chips from intel .
february 29 , 2012 3 : 24 pm pst .
advanced micro devices will acquire server vendor seamicro in an attempt to make a run at intel in the microserver market .
amd said it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire seamicro , a company that supplies energy - efficient microservers , for approximately $334 million .
to date , seamicro servers have been using intel's atom and xeon processors .
future plans call for seamicro to build servers with amd's opteron chips .
"amd plans to offer the first amd opteron processor - based solutions that combine amd and seamicro technology in the second half of 2012 .
the company remains firmly committed to its traditional server business , and will continue to focus and invest in this area , " amd said in a statement .
seamicro's innovations include its supercompute fabric , which connects thousands of processor cores , memory , storage , and input / output traffic .
seamicro's fabric supports multiple processor instruction sets .
"seamicro was founded to dramatically reduce the power consumed by servers , while increasing compute density and bandwidth , " said andrew feldman , seamicro ceo , who will become general manager of amd's newly created data center server solutions business .
amd snaps up server upstart seamicro .
jumpstarting a cloudy server biz with an interconnect .
29th february 2012 .
amd's new ceo rory read was fired up about executing better in the server racket at the company's analyst day earlier this month and has wasted little time in stirring things up with the acquisition of low - power server start - up seamicro for $334m .
seamicro is the server upstart founded four and a half years ago that came out of stealth in june 2010 with an atom bomb : a 10u chassis crammed with 512 single - core atom servers in a 10u chassis , all linked by a 1 . 28tb / sec 3d torus interconnect implemented on an asic that also virtualized all i / o in the cluster of server nodes and provided load balancing across those nodes .
over time , seamicro has added 64 - bit atoms , boosted the number of atom processors and main memory in the system , and only a month ago announced a variant that used single - socket xeon e3 - 1260l processors to give the sm10000 system some "brawny cores" to do heavier computational tasks .
the acquisition of seamicro will no doubt irk intel , which has used seamicro as a poster child for its microserver and cloud computing efforts in the past two years .
so there's some public relations fun in that .
but there isn't much intel can do about seamicro being in amd's hands .
in a conference call with wall street analysts announcing the deal after the market closed , andrew feldman , seamicro's ceo and co - founder , said that his company had been buying atom processors and chipsets from the distribution channel , not from intel .
seamicro does not anticipate any changes in getting its supply of atom and xeon processors or building systems for current and future customers .
in the call , read reiterated that amd was "seizing the inflection point" in the server business .
the acquisition of seamicro , which along with cisco systems is one of the first new entrants in the server racket in years to actually look like it has a chance of making it , would "accelerate out transformation into an agile and disruptive innovator . " .
as we can now see , looking at the past month in hindsight , is that amd figured out that is needed to hunker down on its opteron processor roadmaps and not force server makers to absorb a socket change in 2012 , as was the original plan , but rather to get an improved "piledriver" core for opteron processors into the field this year and do lots of performance tuning to show what "bulldozer" class of chip can really do .
the company then looked around and decided that it didn't need a new chip or chipset so much as a whole different set of technologies to sell to its server oem partners .
that's where seamicro came in .
much will be made of amd entering the server business with the acquisition of seamicro .
but that's not the point , even if it will be technically true over the next months .
lisa su , senior vice president and general manager of the new global business units at amd , who is tasked with making sure the company has the components from which server makers want to build systems , put the kibosh on that idea .
"this is a technology play for us , " su explained , calling the interconnect used at the heart of the seamicro system a "unique technology" that would be a "building block" that amd integrates with its processors and chipsets and then in turn sells to server makers .
the company will work now to get amd's opteron server processors embedded in the seamicro machines , which it expected to have accomplished by the second half of this year .
the company will not divulge what opteron chips it will weld onto the seamicro server boards , but it stands to reason that it would be a low - voltage opteron 3200 or 4200 part .
in an interview with el reg , mark papermaster , amd's cto , deflected all of the interesting questions about how the seamicro 3d torus interconnect might be used , such as extending it beyond one chassis to span multiple chassis under a single management and cluster domain , or maybe adding cache coherence and shared main memory across all or a portion of a seamicro server's nodes .
the acquisition , said papermaster , "allows us to redefine the server building block , " and he noted that amd was keen on becoming "an agile soc company , " referring to system - on - chip designs that put processors and other system elements into a single piece of glass .
and he confirmed el reg's sense that amd was not getting into the server business .
"you have that exactly right , " said papermaster .
when asked about when amd and seamicro started talking , papermaster would not be specific , except to say that amd "moved very , very rapidly . " .
this was quite possibly to keep someone else from buying seamicro and very certainly in part as a reaction to intel's purchase of the infiniband networking business from qlogic back in january for $125m .
papermaster would not comment on rumors that amd has been taking a look at arm server chip maker calxeda , but it could very well turn out that if amd had tried to do that deal , it might be grateful that it fell through .
the seamicro deal is a much better option if it wants to sell server interconnects and help oem customers build cloudy servers and maybe even clustered supercomputers based on the seamicro "freedom" fabric , as the latest generation is called .
that fabric is processor and instruction set agnostic , as feldman has said many times , and seamicro only started out on atom processors because they gave the best bang for the watt .
and it could turn out that calxeda and amd partner to make arm servers somewhere down the road .
why not ?
read wanted to make sure that everyone understood that the seamicro acquisition would have no effect on the company's 2012 and 2013 opteron processor roadmaps and system plans , and that amd was not leaving the traditional x86 server business .
"we're in that business to stay , and we're going to grow it and invest in it , " read said .
amd is paying $281m in cash and $53m in stock to acquire privately held seamicro , which raised $35m in two rounds of funding and also got $9 . 3m in funding from the us government as part of the $787bn american recovery and reinvestment act ( arra ) of 2009 .
feldman is staying on at amd after the acquisition closes and will be general manager of a new data center server solutions business unit , reporting to su .
both chipmakers are bullish about combining , but a key issue for them will be convincing skeptics they should join together in the first place .
advanced micro devices ( amd ) chief executive hector ruiz waxed metaphorical as he described his company 's acquisition of ati technologies ( atyt ) .
chipmaker amd , hoping to gain a leg up on a resurgent rival intel ( intc ) , on july 24 ended months of speculation by saying it would buy graphics chipmaker ati for about $ 5.4 billion .
" we will move from being neighbors to being a family , " ruiz told analysts on a conference call .
the two companies have long partnered in the competitive market for chips that run personal computers and consumer electronics .
but under the same roof , the companies will focus on innovations that are particularly attractive to corporate and mobile-computing customers , ruiz believes .
the enlarged chipmaker will combine amd 's strength in fast-computing power with ati 's specialty in delivering detailed graphics onto a single , low-cost chip .
but the problem with families-especially those formed by multibillion-dollar corporate mergers-is that they often end up dysfunctional .
promised cost savings and sales increases do n't always pan out , and integration of disparate cultures and operations is frequently fraught with value-destroying rifts .
maybe that 's why intel and nvidia ( nvda ) , the companies ' two biggest rivals , found a lot to smile about on july 24 , the day the deal was announced .
" i thought it was just impossible to get a gift like this , " crowed nvidia ceo jen-hsun huang , in an interview with businessweek.com .
ati is " basically throwing in the towel , leaving us as the only stand-alone ( graphics chip ) company in the world . " .
intel , the world 's largest graphics-chipmaker , declined to comment specifically on the deal .
but company execs have noted intel continues to improve its own graphics chipsets and that it expects to deliver platforms of products , like centrino , that amd can not easily match .
investors were n't too sure how happy the amd and ati family will turn out to be , either .
amd shares fell almost 5 % on july 24 , to $ 17.40 , extending recent declines fueled by concern amd will be the biggest loser amid an escalating pc industry price war .
" the assumption of a significant amount of new debt and the need to address integration issues at a time when amd has been seeking to step up its competitive pressure in a fierce environment with intel is likely to weigh on amd 's share , " lehman brothers semiconductor analyst tim luke noted in a report .
indeed , amd and ati could be distracted from their core businesses for months as they combine into a company with $ 7.3 billion in annual sales and 15,000 employees sprawled through canada , california , and texas .
credit-rating agency fitch ratings lowered its outlook on amd 's debt to negative from positive on concern the chipmaker 's debt-to-capital ratio will jump to 37 % from less than 10 % because of a $ 2.5 billion term loan it is using to partially finance the deal .
the merger also could lock ati out of the business of supplying graphics chipsets to intel-based pcs , worth about $ 90 million a year in revenue .
ati chipsets connect to intel 's processor through what 's known as a front side bus , which serves as a highway for transferring data .
but amd , under a different licensing deal with intel , is not allowed to use that front side bus .
" we are evaluating the deal , and have got a lot to figure out how it would fit in with our existing agreements with both ati and amd , " intel spokesman chuck mulloy says .
and while ati and amd are busy ironing out their new relationship , intel and nvidia are rolling out some heavy-hitting chips of their own .
intel and its pc partners on july 27 begin shipping for the first chips in a brand-new pc architecture called core 2 duo ( see businessweek.com , 7/24/06 , " intel sharpens its offensive game " ) .
first up will be desktop chips , followed closely by new energy-sipping chips for notebook pcs .
core 2 duo is expected to wrest the performance crown in the mainstream pc market from amd for the first time in more than two years .
amd will not get a chance to grab it back until mid-2007 , when it is fully ramped on a new manufacturing process .
meantime , nvidia is prepping to deliver a new high-end graphics chip later this year that company executives herald as the biggest leap forward in nearly a decade .
after a high-profile delay in delivering a new chip in 2001 , nvidia has been steadily taking market share from ati in the lucrative market supplying screaming-fast graphic cards to the discriminating gaming community .
amd says there 's plenty of reason to be bullish on the deal .
the company has its sights on markets where nvidia and intel are not as strong .
amd president dirk meyer hopes to use ati 's chipset business to develop an energy-sipping combo processing and graphics chip that can be paired with software partners to deliver a platform better able to compete with intel 's new vpro offering .
intel has won early praise from software companies and large businesses for vpro , which bakes security and virtualization directly into the chip .
with vpro , tech administrators managing thousands of pcs could partition parts of the system from workers-a feature that could keep viruses from rapidly spreading across corporate networks .
and ati 's growing business of providing graphics chipsets to cell-phone makers nokia ( nok ) and motorola ( mot ) also will give it up a leg up over intel , he said .
intel recently sold its cellular chip business to marvell technology ( mrvl ) for $ 600 million .
" customers want to get better mobile offerings and more stable commercial offerings , but they want to know that we 're still going to offer them the ability to choose , " meyer says .
even if relations between amd and nvidia turn frosty and ati loses intel 's business , amd executives predict a combined offering would bring in an additional $ 300 million in revenue in the pc realm alone for every share point gained against intel .
still , not everyone 's sold. pip coburn , founder of tech advisory firm coburn ventures , notes amd has pinned its success on a range of variables .
" i do n't want six reasons , " coburn says, .
" i want two reasons , two good reasons . " .
amd 's meyer says he knows the company has some heavy lifting ahead .
" the integration task is going to require focus , " he says .
the biggest job , however , may be convincing skeptics this family was worth forming in the first place .
amd announces strategic investment to accelerate cloud server strategy .
on february 29 , 2012 , amd announced a definitive agreement to acquire seamicro , a pioneer in energy - efficient , high - bandwidth microservers .
by acquiring seamicro , amd is accelerating our disruptive server strategy , taking advantage of an inflection point in the industry driving opportunities in low power , client mobility , emerging markets and the cloud / megadata centers .
this disruptive move positions amd to expand our current server offerings and provide our customers with low - power , low - cost , high - bandwidth platforms .
with seamicro , amd builds upon our processor design and compute expertise with system - level advances in energy efficiency , total cost of ownership and density for customers .
we are excited to have seamicro join amd .
the combination of seamicro ip with amd opteron technologies and our focus on execution provide amd differentiated capabilities to address the evolving needs of the server market .
rbc capital markets downgraded ati technologies to " sector perform " from " outperform " after advanced micro devices announced its intention to buy the canadian graphics chip-maker for $ 5.4 billion on monday .
even though the takeover looks fairly valued , rbc analyst steve arthur said there is limited upside to the offer unless competing bids are made for ati .
for now , arthur said amd 's takeover deal , which is expected to close in the fourth quarter , effectively offers his one-year price target of $ 21 now .
that price target was set prior to the takeover bid and factored in ati 's gross margin leverage , capital expenditure strength , a competitive product lineup and the launch of microsoft ( nasdaq : msft - news - people ) windows ' new operating system , vista , which would be a " net positive " for graphics-chips vendors .
without a competitive bid to drive shares higher , ati is unlikely to outperform , warranting a " sector perform " rating in the analyst 's view .
arthur said a competitive bid is possible but the two most-likely bidders , intel ( nasdaq : intc - news - people ) and nvdidia , face prohibitive anti-trust challenges. combined , ati and intel would have 68 % overall market share in pc graphics , while an ati-nvidia partnership would effectively capture 100 % of the discrete graphics market .
other counteroffers could be made by texas instruments ( nyse : txn - news - people ) and broadcom ( nasdaq : brcm - news - people ) , which , according to arthur , would n't so much face anti-trust challenges as they would compatibility challenges .
amd to acquire seamicro : accelerates disruptive server strategy .
seamicro low - power , high - bandwidth microserver solutions set the stage for amd " s disruptive approach to lead fast - growing cloud data center market .
sunnyvale , calif . --2 / 29 / 2012 .
amd ( nyse : amd ) today announced it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire seamicro , a pioneer in energy - efficient , high - bandwidth microservers , for approximately $334 million , of which approximately $281 million will be paid in cash .
through the acquisition of seamicro , amd will be accelerating its strategy to deliver disruptive server technology to its oem customers serving cloud - centric data centers .
with seamicro " s fabric technology and system - level design capabilities , amd will be uniquely positioned to offer industry - leading server building blocks tuned for the fastest - growing workloads such as dynamic web content , social networking , search and video .
amd " s server technology combined with seamicro technology provides customers with a range of processor choices and platforms that can help significantly reduce data center complexity , cost and energy consumption while improving performance .
amd plans to offer the first amd opteron processor - based solutions that combine amd and seamicro technology in the second half of 2012 .
the company remains firmly committed to its traditional server business , and will continue to focus and invest in this area .
" by acquiring seamicro , we are accelerating amd " s transformation into an agile , disruptive innovator capable of staking a data center leadership position , " said rory read , president and ceo , amd .
" seamicro is a pioneer in low - power server technology .
the unmatched combination of amd " s processing capabilities , seamicro " s system and fabric technology , and our ambidextrous technology approach uniquely positions amd with a compelling , differentiated position to attack the fastest growing segment of the server market . " .
seamicro technologies offer substantial advantages in large data center and cloud environments .
cloud data centers are projected to be the fastest growing segment of the server market through 2015 , according to idc1 .
current systems featuring seamicro technology typically use one quarter the power and take one sixth the space of traditional servers with the same compute performance , yet deliver up to 12 times the bandwidth per core2 .
foremost among seamicro " s innovations is their supercompute fabric , which connects thousands of processor cores , memory , storage and input / output traffic .
seamicro " s fabric supports multiple processor instruction sets .
seamicro solutions are currently deployed in multiple sites across the world .
amd will continue to support all current seamicro customers while accelerating plans to deliver new platforms that combine amd and seamicro technology and enable amd " s oem partners to bring differentiated solutions to market .
" cloud computing has brought a sea change to the data center - - dramatically altering the economics of compute by changing the workload and optimal characteristics of a server , " said andrew feldman , seamicro ceo , who will become general manager of amd " s newly created data center server solutions business .
" seamicro was founded to dramatically reduce the power consumed by servers , while increasing compute density and bandwidth .
by becoming a part of amd , we will have access to new markets , resources , technology , and scale that will provide us with the opportunity to work tightly with our oem partners as we fundamentally change the server market . " .
the acquisition does not change amd " s 2012 financial guidance and the transaction is expected to be accretive to earnings after 2012 .
amd will fund the cash portion of the acquisition with existing cash reserves .
amd conference call .
amd will hold a conference call for the financial community at 4 : 45 p . m . est today to discuss today " s announcement .
amd will provide a real - time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the investor relations page of its web site at www . amd . com .
the webcast will be available for 10 days after the conference call .
ati a potent weapon for amd in clash with intel .
the pitched battle for supremacy in the chip-making market reached a critical phase yesterday with advanced micro devices ( amd ) in sunnyvale , calif . announcing its decision to acquire canadian graphic cards manufacturer ati technologies ( ati ) .
the imminent purchase of ati , analysts say , is the most vital element in amd 's concerted campaign to dethrone the mighty intel corp .
amd agreed to buy markham , ont-based ati for around $ 5.4 billion in cash and stock , the companies announced monday .
the acquisition , which is subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals , would turn amd into one of the world 's largest providers of graphics chips .
" you wo n't see it tomorrow , but the merger will potentially put amd on a more equal footing with intel , " said michelle warren , an analyst with evans research in toronto .
another canadian analyst noted that the merger was likely to bring significant benefits to both companies .
amd would round out its graphics processing unit portfolio , said eddie chan , lead analyst , mobile and personal computing at research firm idc canada in toronto. ati , he said , also blends in well amd 's live ! convergence platform .
" ati has a strong product portfolio that covers components for such offerings as mobile phones , wireless products , digital tv , and high definition tv . " .
on the flip side , amd allows ati to hitch a ride on the integrated chip bandwagon .
discrete graphics components have been suffering over the years as the market moves on to integrated chips such as those sold by intel , said chan .
" a tie-up with amd allows ati to move towards integrated solutions or the so-called system-on-a-chip platform . " .
the marketing message from ati executives too is all about the 'mutual benefits ' of the proposed acquisition .
adrian hartog , senior vice-president for consumer products at ati , characterized the alliance as a growth opportunity for both companies .
it is generally expected that the merged company will harness ati 's strong r and d track record .
in a list released late last year of canada 's top 10 r and d spenders , ati technologies was in position 5 .
the company spent $ 389.1 million in r and d in 2004 , an increase of 18.3 percent .
the list was released by toronto consulting firm research infosource .
the ati research team has a proven capacity to turn major new products out every 12 to 18 months .
" bringing these two companies together will allow us to transcend what we have accomplished as individual businesses , " said hector ruiz , chairman and chief executive officer ( ceo ) of amd in a statement .
" all of our product lines will benefit . " .
earlier , amd revealed plans to build a highly efficient dual-core notebook processor , set for release in the second half of 2007 .
amd enjoys considerable strength in the server and consumer computing industry while ati is considered a leader in the computer gaming arena .
warren said recent years have seen these disparate markets move closer to each other .
for instance , ati 's shader model 3.0 , which allows more complex shading and more realistic image rendering , is finding traction in the enterprise space with companies that are heavy computer-aided drafting ( cad ) users , including customers in the automotive , aerospace and animation spaces .
hartog said the purchase of ati by amd will involve ' some changes ' but he downplayed any potential lay-offs from among the company 's more than 3,000 employees .
" ontario has one of our largest r and d teams and that arrangement will continue .
we are not anticipating any immediate lay-offs , " hartog said .
any acquisition raises the issue of employment stability , said warren , but amd would be wise to allow ati to continue operating as it does .
" there is a strong chance ati will be given a measure of autonomy because it has great strength in its area . " .
warren said the alliance also " steps up " ati 's competition with rival nvidia of santa clara , calif. apart from ati , amd also turns to nvidia for graphics components .
" depending on the contract , it is possible that nvidia 's access to amd chips will be limited , " said warren .
if that happens , evans research analyst michelle warren said , " it will open the doors for nvidia to search for new options and possibly talk with intel .
however , hartog said there will be no move to constrain nvidia 's supply .
" nvidia will continue to be amd 's partner .
both ati and amd are committed to open platform systems , " he said .
" in fact that is what differentiates us to our partners and customers . " .
amd enters server business with bold acquisition .
02 . 29 . 12 4 : 15 pm .
chip designer and chief intel rival amd has signed an agreement to acquire seamicro , a silicon valley startup that seeks to save power and space by building servers from hundreds of low - power processors .
with the purchase , amd will not only turn itself into a server maker , it will turn itself into a server maker that uses chips from intel .
today , seamicro " s servers are built with processors from amd " s rival , including intel " s atom mobile processors as well as intel xeon chips .
amd says it will continue to sell and support seamicro servers equipped with intel chips " for the foreseeable future . " .
but it also hopes to license seamicro " s server " fabric " technology to other server sellers , including big names dell and hp , and it plans to introduce amd opteron chips into seamicro machines sometime in the second half of the year .
seamicro " s fabric is a way of efficiently connecting various pieces of server hardware , and the company says it can be used with virtually any processor .
less than a month ago , intel and seamicro held a joint press event where they predicted a bright future together , so it would appear that the amd acquisition came about rather quickly .
but amd " s lisa su -- the company " s senior vice president and general manager for its global business units -- says the chip designer has been eyeing technologies along the lines of seamicro " s for some time .
" we " ve been looking at the key technology innovations that are going to really disrupt the server market .
we " ve been looking at fabric technologies -- externally with a number of companies as well as internally , looking to develop ourselves -- and we felt that seamicro was really the best option .
it was proven , and it was in systems , " su said on wednesday morning during a briefing with reporters .
" the complement of our processing capability and seamicro " s fabric technology gives us what we think is a very , very strong [ intellectual property ] portfolio . " .
amd will pay $334 million for seamicro , including $281 million in cash .
the deal is expected to close in " a number of weeks . " .
based in sunnyvale , california , seamicro is at the forefront of a movement to build servers from ultra - low - powered processors -- aka " wimpy cores . " .
the idea is to reduce power by splitting applications into small pieces that can be spread across a larger number of chips , not unlike the one running your cell phone .
texas startup calxeda offers " wimpy core " servers equipped with chips using the arm instruction set -- an alternative to the x86 instruction set used by intel and amd -- while hp is exploring the idea with a research effort it calls project moonshot .
but last month , during that press event co - hosted by intel , seamicro announced that it would also offer servers equipped with intel xeon chips , which were specifically designed for servers .
xeon consume more power , but they also offer more speed .
seamicro says that certain software workloads are suited to the wimpy cores , while others are suited to " brawny cores , " and this same message is delivered by the likes of dave andersen , the carnegie melon professor who coined the wimpy core name .
whatever processor it uses , seamicro says , it can save power and space when you compare its machines to traditional servers .
the company has built specialized asic chip loaded with software that allows the company to build ultra - small motherboards that include little more than processors , memory , and the asic itself -- and then connect hundreds of these boards .
according to the company , this technology is " chip agnostic , " meaning it can relatively easily be used with new chip architectures .
amd and seamicro say that they will " explore " the use of seamicro " s fabrics with all sorts of processors , both wimpy and brawny .
this may include arm chips .
in recent weeks , amd has hinted that it will eventually license arm technology .
asked if the company will continue to offer ultra - low - power chips along the lines of the intel atom , seamicro ceo and co - founder andrew feldman said " absolutely . " .
but he declined to point to specific processor architectures .
" this [ seamicro fabric ] technology can work with larger cores and small cores .
it can work with x86 and non - x86 .
it can also move ethernet traffic and storage traffic , " feldman said .
amd chief technology officer mark papermaster then piped up to point out that amd is intent on using whatever chip technologies are needed to get a particular job done .
" if you look at our roadmap , we have a very agile [ system - on - a - chip ] , " he said .
" it allows us to be more pushy in bringing in our ip . " .
seamicro currently employs 80 people , and about half of them are engineers .
one of those engineers is founder and chief technology officer gary lauterbach , who was previously an amd fellow and one of five architects who build the core of amd " s opteron processor .
lauterbach was also a lead chip designer at sun microsystems , and the idea for seamicro first came to him when he and another sun executive got a look at the low - power servers that powered google " s search engine in the early part of the last decade .
andrew feldman will become the general manager of amd " s new " data center solutions " business .
according to su , this business unit will continue to support the current " roadmap " for seamicro " s servers .
this means that the company will sell and service seamicro " s intel atom and intel xeon systems -- though su indicated that the company will eventually drop intel " s chips .
she said that amd opteron chips will be added to seamicro system " towards the end of this year . " .
intel " s jason waxman -- who heads the company " s general manager of intel " s high density computing group -- tells wired that amd " s acquisition of seamicro " doesn " t change a whole lot " for intel .
he says that amd will decide whether to keep selling seamicro servers with intel chips , and that intel will continue to reduce the power consumption of both its xeon and atom chips for use inside servers .
" being able to launch the seamicro product with intel xeon silicon was a good testimonial for us .
they thought we were the best partner at the time , " waxman said .
" they chose our silicon for a reason . " .
whatever the fate of intel chips in seamicro servers , amd says the acquisition is about more than just selling machines .
the idea is also to " broaden " amd " s relationships with server sellers such as dell and hp .
presumably , this means that amd will license seamicro " s fabric technology to third - parties .
" we have new technology that we can add to our existing opteron roadmap to form something that can really differentiate us in the marketplace , " su said .
andrew feldman added that seamicro has already had discussions along these lines with the likes of dell and hp .
currently , dell resells seamicro servers .
that said , the acquisition means that -- on some level -- amd will be competing with its own customers .
it will be both chip designer and server maker .
but su downplayed this notion .
" we are not competing with our customers .
we have to balance the fact that will continue to support [ seamicro's ] products .
but the goal is to proliferate the technology with oems , " su said , referring to original equipment manufacturers such as dell and hp .
" what we saw was a chance to take our technology to multiple markets , with multiple partners , in multiple geographies -- in ways we couldn " t do on our own , " said seamicro ceo and new amd general manager andrew feldman .
" the opportunity to collaborate with the oems was larger than the opportunity to compete with them . " .
advanced micro devices inc. shook up the personal computer industry by buying ati technologies inc. for us $ 5.4-billion yesterday , opening up a new front in the battle with intel corp. to control the computer chip market .
the deal , which had been anticipated for over a year , gives amd high-end graphics technology and bolsters the company 's strategy to overtake intel as the dominant supplier of chips that power personal computers and other devices .
as well , intel has been a buyer of ati 's graphic chips and that relationship looks to be in jeopardy .
" this reconfigures the market and puts amd in an amazingly new strong position , " said jon peddie , an independent chip analyst in san francisco .
amd buys sea micro for $334m to get into energy - efficient " microservers " .
february 29 , 2012 2 : 27 pm .
there " s a sea change happening in a segment of the server market dubbed microservers .
and sea micro has been at the center of it , disrupting the market with energy efficient servers that use lightweight processors from intel .
advanced micro devices is acquiring sea micro today for $334 million , including $281 million in cash .
sea micro has been disruptive because it can pack a lot of computing power in a server rack that is about a sixth of the usual size .
its servers use a quarter of the usual electricity and cost a lot less .
the servers use intel " s atom microprocessors , which are targeted at energy efficient devices such as tablet computers .
but amd " s move could shake things up for intel , which presumably will lose some of its business .
the advantage of sunnyvale , calif . - based seamicro " s small and power - efficient computers is that enterprises can now shove a lot more computing power into a given amount of space and use a lot less electrical power , thereby cutting electricity bills dramatically .
that matters because electricity costs are the biggest part of the budget for operating data centers .
andrew feldman , chief executive of sea micro has said in past interviews that seamicro had become the fastest - growing system company in silicon valley history .
seamicro " s customers include france telecom , skype , rogers wireless , mozilla , eharmony , and china netcom bb .
hundreds of millions of internet users traverse seamicro " s hardware daily .
as we " ve described in earlier stories , intel has been improving its server microprocessors by making them more power efficient .
but the microprocessor only accounts for a third of the power consumption in a server .
seamicro " s innovation lies in how it attacks the remaining two - thirds of the power consumption problem .
it does so by combining a lot of the extraneous chips into a single , more - efficient custom chip , feldman said .
in its earliest system , seamicro put 384 intel atom dual - core processors ( for a total of 64 - bit 768 cores ) in a 10 - rack system , which is just 17 . 5 inches high .
the newer sm10000 - 64hd was a 20 percent improvement over seamicro " s previous server line and a 150 percent improvement on its compute density record , or the amount of computing power in a given space .
that single machine could replace rival systems with a bunch of equipment : 60 traditional servers , four rack switches , four terminal servers , and a load balancing server .
it uses a quarter of the power and a sixth of the space .
seamicro can put an entire server on a motherboard that is 5 inches by 11 inches .
since the hardware is intel - based , customers don " t have to change their software at all .
seamicro was founded in 2007 and is backed with $60 million in funding by khosla ventures , draper fisher jurvetson , crosslink capital , and a number of strategic investors .
it also won grants from the u . s . departement of energy ( $9 . 3 million ) and the state of california ( $250 , 000 ) .
seamicro has 80 employees .
most recently , it raised $20 million .
seamicro also attacked the power consumption problem with a very clever trick known as virtualization .
today , virtualization is frequently used with servers .
it is a layer of software that rests between an application and the servers that it runs on .
if an application needs only two servers , the virtualization software finds two available servers to run the application .
if the application gets busy and needs 10 servers , the virtualization software finds 10 available servers to do the job .
the application is no longer tied to specific servers ; the virtualization software frees up the overall system and gets more use out of the available servers .
seamicro did the same thing , but it applied the concept of virtualization to the inside of a server .
feldman designed custom chips that could take the tasks that were handled by everything beyond the intel microprocessor and its chip set .
the custom chips virtualize all of those other components so that it finds the resource when it " s needed .
it essentially tricks the microprocessor into thinking that the rest of the system is there when it needs it .
seamicro virtualized a lot of functions that took up a lot of space inside each server in a rack .
it also did the same with functions such as storage , networking , server management , and load balancing .
full told , seamicro eliminates 90 percent of the components from a system board .
seamicro calls this cpu / io virtualization .
with it , seamicro shrinks the size of the system board from a pizza box to the size of a credit card .
by boiling down the rest of the system into a couple of chips , seamicro can get rid of a lot of the components in a system , thereby getting rid of space , cost , and power consumption .
the buy should also expand amd 's manufacturing capability , as well as integrate microprocessors and graphics engines in a single chip .
the acquisition is set to be wrapped up by year 's end .
advanced micro devices ( nyse : amd ) announced the largest acquisition in its history monday , paying about $ 5.4 billion to acquire graphics chip specialist ati technologies .
the acquisition will let amd expand its position in the commercial desktop and mobile computing markets , two areas where the company has not had much success .
in addition to accelerating the company 's x86 processor market share battle with intel ( nsdq : intc ) , the acquisition will expand amd 's access to manufacturing capacity and will lead to products that will integrate both microprocessors and graphics engines in a single chip in future releases .
the startup manages large-scale web infrastructures to prevent downtime related to configuration changes march madness 2008 was carried in full on the internet , on demand thanks to the technology innovations of cbs sports and cbs interactive gm 's tech leader talks about consolidating , re-engineering , upgrading the company 's application infrastructure .
" together we intend to create a processing powerhouse , " said hector ruiz , chairman and chief executive of amd , during a teleconference to announce the deal .
" we are confident the companies will integrate well together .
we believe that as technology advances , integration is not only inevitable , but also advantageous . " .
beginning next year , the companies will market " customer-centric platforms " using amd and ati technologies that will include all existing product offerings .
beginning in 2008 , amd plans to introduce platforms that integrate general purpose processors and graphics engines to meet specific media , data , and graphic requirements , says dave orton , president and chief executive of ati .
bob rivet , cfo of amd , says the acquisition is expected to be completed by year 's end .
the purchase is a combination of $ 4.2 billion in cash and 57 million shares of amd stock .
amd 's current area of greatest strength is providing processors that address the server and consumer desktop market , rivet says .
bringing ati 's graphics technology in-house will allow amd to better address the commercial desktop and laptop markets , he says , two areas where amd currently has a smaller presence .
while overall sales of x86 processors currently totals about $ 30 billion annually , amd is primarily addressing only a segment that totals about $ 13 billion , rivet says .
by expanding more into commercial desktop and laptop markets , amd will be able to grow its overall x86 market share .
rivet says that each percentage of market share gained equates to about $ 300 million in revenue .
ruiz says the acquisition " opens up a broad array of options for expanding our capacity infrastructure " by providing amd with an expanded relationship with some of the largest semiconductor foundries in the world .
currently amd utilizes internal manufacturing capacity , as well as capacity from chartered semiconductor manufacturing .
ati , however , has manufacturing relationships with two of the other largest foundries in the world , taiwan semiconductor manufacturing and united microelectronics .
the acquisition of ati by amd will now provide computer makers and customers with another choice for integrated microprocessor and graphics processor platforms , says bruce shaw , director of worldwide commercial marketing for amd .
currently only intel offers an integrated platform .
although amd will be providing integrated platforms , it will continue to support the use of third-party graphics products , such as those from nvidia , in combination with its processors , shaw says .
amd has no plans to reduce the ati product line or back away from markets it addresses , such as cell phones , where amd has little or no presence , he said .
ati is expected to continue to operate out of its headquarters in markham , ontario , and layoffs are expected to be minimal .
amd buys seamicro , enters server hardware business .
feb 29 , 2012 2 : 31 pm .
advanced micro devices announced wednesday it is buying low - power server vendor seamicro , a surprise move that puts amd in the systems business and disrupts intel by acquiring one of its close partners .
amd will pay us$334 million in cash and stock for seamicro , an 80 - employee silicon valley startup that has gained attention for building highly dense and power - efficient servers for use in large - scale cloud computing environments .
seamicro ceo andrew feldman will become general manager of a new division at amd , the data center server solutions group .
amd plans to sell seamicro - branded servers directly to customers , but it bought the company primarily for its technology , which it hopes to license to other server vendors to build their own low - power systems , amd officials said .
"seamicro has a proven technology that has been benchmarked in key customer sites to show improvements in power consumption and total cost of ownership .
that [ intellectual property ] was very attractive to us , " said lisa su , senior vice president and general manager for amd's products division .
the move will be seen as a setback to intel , which had built a tight partnership with seamicro .
all the servers seamicro currently sells are based on low - power intel atom processors , and just a few weeks ago the companies held a joint press conference where intel sang seamicro's praises .
an intel spokesman declined to comment on the acquisition wednesday before it was officially announced .
amd will continue to sell seamicro servers based on intel processors "for the foreseeable future , " lu said .
by the end of this year , she said , it will release the first seamicro servers based on amd opteron processors .
feldman wouldn't say when seamicro and amd began talks but said the deal came about "unbelievably quickly . " .
he said there were other suitors for the company , including non - chip vendors .
seamicro developed an interconnect technology that allows it to eliminate all but three of the chips on a standard server motherboard .
that allowed it to develop servers that it claims consume one quarter the power and one sixth the space of standard x86 servers .
its products are geared primarily towards high volume , web - based transaction workloads that don't require the computing muscle of a traditional xeon or opteron server processor .
mozilla uses seamicro servers , for instance , to deliver software updates to users .
it's not clear which amd processor seamicro will use as an alternative to intel's atom chip , though amd has several low - power offerings and plans to release a new , low - power chip for tablets , code named hondo , later this year .
however , seamicro has said its technology can also benefit servers based on more powerful processors .
a server based on an opteron chip would be efficient for running mysql and mondodb database workloads , feldman said , as well as php applications used by many online services .
it could also be used to build efficient supercomputers , he said .
it's a new direction for amd , one it hopes will allow it to expand its server business and capitalize on the fast - growing cloud computing market .
spending on servers for such "scale out data centers" is expected to grow 33 percent a year on average for the next several years , amd said , faster than the server market as a whole .
the move puts amd in the difficult position of competing with some of its customers , though lu insisted that will not be a problem .
the scale of seamicro's business today is much smaller than that of a hewlett - packard or a dell , she said , and amd thinks the value of seamicro's technology to server vendors will outweigh their competitive concerns .
amd's server business could use a lift , noted dean mccarron , principal analyst at mercury research .
"they are obviously experiencing a decline and this would be a way to expand the market for their processors , " he said .
amd is paying $281 million in cash for seamicro and the remainder in stock , lu said .
it expects to close the deal in march .
graphic talk about nvidia .
addressing a deficiency of its own and further upping the competitive tension between it and chief rival intel ( nasdaq : intc - news - people ) , advanced micro devices ( nyse : amd - news - people ) intends to acquire graphics chipmaker ati technologies ( nasdaq : atyt - news - people ) in a $ 5.4 billion deal .
is intel below $ 19 too cheap to last or still above what the chipmaker 's worth ?
the question for many is where that leaves nvidia corp. ( nasdaq : nvda - news - people ) , now the sole independent graphics chip maker addressing each of the computing , mobile communications and display markets .
we think not too much worse off than before the deal , and believe shares in the company remain a compelling way to play growth in gaming- and media-oriented computing .
our view of the advanced micro devices / ati technologies deal is that it 's the last major move amd needed to make to match intel 's breadth in the processor market ( now that intel has shed its communications processor business ) .
intel has had for some time the ability to integrate graphics capabilities into its offerings for pc makers , resources for which amd has had to rely on other folks , including both ati and nvidia .
the amd/ati combination now trumps intel 's strategy by adding the capacity to package higher-end chips for gaming and complex graphic manipulation .
we 're not sure that 's a huge game-changer for ati in its ongoing match against nvidia , though .
we doubt amd would shut out nvidia 's ability to integrate with its core processors , as any such move might lessen the attractiveness of amd 's core products to that crowd .
amd's acquisition of seamicro puts intel on the defensive .
mar 2 , 2012 12 : 30 pm .
intel suffered a setback in the server market this week with the news that its former partner , seamicro , is being acquired by amd .
but the world's top chip maker said it was internally developing technology to remain competitive in the dense server market .
intel is developing integrated fabrics to boost i / o and high - performance networking and storage in servers , said jason waxman , general manager of intel's data center business unit , in an interview .
the technologies are being developed as the company tries to boost its presence in the market for dense servers used in cloud computing deployments in data centers .
amd is paying us$334 million for seamicro , which until now was in a tight partnership with intel to develop dense servers .
amd plans to sell seamicro - branded servers and license to customers its fabric technology , which virtualizes i / o and ties together storage and networking .
the deal is expected to close in march .
seamicro provides amd an instant presence in the nascent but fast - growing dense server market , and intel will now be playing catch - up , analysts said .
seamicro currently sells servers only with intel processors , and it is likely that amd will swap those with its own chips .
intel said it will continue to provide processors for seamicro servers , depending on the requirements .
amd's purchase of seamicro was an unexpected but smart move , said nathan brookwood , principal analyst at insight 64 .
the dense server market is growing as companies look to curb electricity costs by deploying low - power servers to respond to web and database queries .
but amd's prize in the acquisition is seamicro's specialized fabric , brookwood said .
seamicro's dense servers have many credit - card - sized motherboards that are connected by the fabric , which reduces the need for extra storage and network controllers .
it could take intel years to develop technology that is competitive with seamicro's fabric , brookwood said .
and intel will need to prove its technology is reliable before it is widely adopted .
"intel has all the pieces and all the technology and the smart people to put this together .
but it takes time , " brookwood said .
the seamicro deal gives amd a technological head start , but it will also intensify intel's focus on developing related technology , said dean mccarron , principal analyst at mercury research .
intel's waxman didn't specify how intel would build the fabric and i / o technology , but said the company would utilize assets from recently acquired networking companies .
in july it acquired fulcrum microsystems , which makes ethernet switches , and last month it purchased infiniband assets from qlogic , which provides high - performance fabric technology for servers .
intel also will remain competitive through new processors , memory and system management technologies .
but by the time intel's fabric technology matures , analysts said that amd could be far ahead in the integration of seamicro's technology inside chips .
amd in the future will allow implementation of third - party intellectual property inside chips , and by 2013 or 2014 , seamicro's ip could be inside opteron server chips .
currently seamicro's asic ( application - specific integrated circuit ) controlling the fabric is placed on the motherboard alongside the processor and memory .
when integrated inside a chip , it could be similar to calxeda's energycore chip , which will be used by hewlett - packard in its upcoming arm server .
the calxeda chip includes cache , an 80 - gigabit fabric switch and a management engine for power optimization .
amd will be able to license the fabric technology to work on arm processors , which could also put pressure on intel , analysts said .
arm processors are mainly found in smartphones and tablets , but there is growing interest in building power - efficient arm servers .
amd will be able to differentiate its offerings from intel's by offering seamicro technology with either arm or x86 processors as early as 2013 , said matt eastwood , group vice president for enterprise platform research at idc .
amd currently offers only x86 chips , but the company's chief technology officer , mark papermaster , has not ruled out implementing arm ip on its future chips .
but intel's waxman said the amd - seamicro deal does not change intel's dense server strategy , and the chip maker will continue to work with customers like dell and tyan .
"a part of our strategy is to provide a full portfolio of ingredients , " waxman said .
"we've got the right assets in our arsenal . " .
taiwan semiconductor manufacturing co. ( tsmc ) shares rose yesterday after two of the world 's largest chipmakers said their merger would not create a negative impact on the hsinchu-based foundry , dispelling investors fears .
tsmc stock traded on the taiex closed at nt $ 53.8 yesterday , up nt $ 0.9 from the previous trading day .
yesterday advanced micro devices inc. ( amd ) , a leading global cpu maker , announced its purchase of canada-based graphics chips maker ati technologies inc. in a us $ 5.4 billion deal that many said would help amd compete more effectively with intel corp. , its largest-in-the-world rival .
analysts also said the merger would cause a reshuffle in the global pc industry , affecting chip foundries - including tsmc - that manufacture intel-based graphics chips for ati on an original equipment manufacturing basis .
ati , the largest maker of computer graphics chips for notebook computers , outsources the manufacturing of its chips , while advanced micro has facilities to produce some of its own processors .
in a news conference announcing the merger held in taipei yesterday , henri richard , executive vice president of amd , urged investors not to worry as ati 's relations with tsmc and its rival united microelectronics corp. would not change .
he said ati and its suppliers use the so-called cmos manufacturing technology , which is different from what amd uses .
umc yesterday closed at nt $ 18 , up nt $ 0.05 .
some analysts however expressed the concern that the merger would impact tsmc in the long run , as loss of ati orders would cause tsmc to see its capacity utilization lowered by 20 to 30 percent .
tsmc , the world 's largest maker of customized chips , said itself monday night it will continue to manufacture for ati .
" as part of amd , ati 's business will continue to operate in a fabless business model and maintain its strong foundry partnership with tsmc , " the company said in an e-mailed statement .
the company said it had held discussions with ati , without providing details .
the merger , meanwhile , is also expected to create an impact on taiwan 's chipset manufacturers .
via , a manufacturer of amd-based chipsets , yesterday saw its shares drop nt $ 0.65 to close at nt $ 24.05 .
altogether the taiex rose 31.36 points yesterday to close at 6,390.99 .
amd to acquire microserver startup seamicro for $334 million .
february 29 , 2012 04 : 23pm est .
advanced micro devices on wednesday announced a deal to acquire startup seamicro , a maker of microservers and data center fabric technology , for $334 million .
seamicro chief executive andrew feldman will become general manager of a newly formed amd business unit called data center server solutions .
"seamicro's leading - edge fabric technology together with amd opteron processors point the way to a compelling roadmap for the cloud data center market , " said lisa su , senior vice president and general manager of amd's global business units , in a discussion with reporters at the chip maker's sunnyvale , calif . headquarters ahead of the announcement .
the company will continue to honor seamicro's existing relationships with its own partners , su said , and will sell seamicro - branded servers , which currently use server chips made by amd archrival intel .
feldman , who also spoke with media wednesday , said seamicro's technology was "processor - agnostic , " so incorporating amd's opteron processors and even non - x86 instruction sets and architectures in future products would be easy to do .
amd representatives said they believed seamicro's unique supercompute fabric was a major innovation in data center technology , characterizing the platform as a "new server building block" which would increasingly make its way into the growing cloud infrastructure space .
"when you're talking about the ability to tie together large amounts of processor cores , hundreds and even thousands , within a server system , there aren't a lot of choices out there [ in terms of competitors ] , particularly if you want to bring ethernet over it and disk traffic over it , there's just us , " said feldman , describing his company's technology .
"nobody else can move both ethernet and disk traffic , because they have very different requirements , " he added .
feldman said seamicro's suitors were numerous in the days leading up to the amd acquisition and included more than just semiconductor companies .
in recent months , intel and other companies had spoken highly of the innovative startup .
"we were fortunate that when we began speaking with amd , they had far and away the most sophisticated view on fabrics , " he said .
"they had already done extensive work on what a next - generation fabric could look like .
they were kindred spirits and when you find that , you can move very quickly .
and they really moved with dazzling speed . " .
amd president and chief executive rory read also addressed the deal in a statement , saying that the seamicro acquisition would accelerate "amd's transformation into an agile , disruptive innovator capable of staking a data center leadership position . " .
amd 's ati acquisition will not affect india operations .
india will figure prominently in amd 's $ 5.4bn acquisition of ati technologies , as both the semiconductor giants have their operations in the country .
amd has its design centre in bangalore while ati 's r and d unit is located in hyderabad .
though the exact contours of the merger and its implications in india are not known , both are expected to maintain their existing portfolios of operations as both concentrate on different segments .
" the combination will create a processing powerhouse by bringing amd 's technology leadership in microprocessors together with ati 's strength in graphics , chipsets and consumer electronics , " amd said in a statement .
ati technologies india md dasaradha r gude told et that the combination would drive growth and the indian operations would also be expanded .
" our work is complementary to each other and does not overlap .
with this merger , we would also be able to address bigger markets , " he said .
the amd statement said , " we can not speculate on the implications of the merger for another 90-120 days , till the time integration is complete . " .
amd acquires seamicro -- big bet on architectural shift for servers .
summary : rich fichera looks at the risks and potential rewards of amd's recent acquisition of innovative server startup seamicro .
march 1 , 2012 - - 07 : 58 gmt ( 23 : 58 pst ) .
at its recent financial analyst day , amd indicated that intended to differentiate itself by creating products that were advantaged in niche markets , with specific mention , among other segments , of servers , and to generally shake up the trench warfare that has had it on the losing side of its lifelong battle with intel ( my interpretation , not amd management " s words ) .
today , at least for the server side of the business they made a move that can potentially offer them visibility and differentiation by acquiring innovative server startup seamicro .
seamicro has attracted our attention since its appearance ( blog post 1 , blog post 2 ) , with its innovative architecture that dramatically reduces power and improves density by sharing components like i / o adapters , disks and even bios over a proprietary fabric .
the irony here is that seamicro came to market with a tight alignment with intel , who at one pint even introduced a special dual - core packaging of their atom cpu to allow seamicro improve its density and power efficiency .
most recently seamicro and intel announced a new model which featured xeon cpus to address the more mainstream segments that were not a for seamicro " s original atom - based offering .
so what does amd hope to gain from this acquisition ?
the strategic goal is a differentiated server architecture into which they can insert amd silicon and ip .
the seamicro architecture shares many of the characteristics of the calxeda / hp redstone architecture , and can potentially allow amd to produce reference architecture for its system partners to leverage that gives them significant density advantages over any conventional x86 server offering .
since this architecture is initially targeted at dense computing environments such as those found in web 2 . 0 , cloud service providers and similar workloads , as well as potentially at conventional hpc , the prospects for amd are interesting .
long - term success will hinge on several interlocking factors .
1 . how much will amd focus this offering on the ultra - dense space that seamicro started addressing versus trying to also take a bite out of the enterprise space ?
2 . how aggressively will they scale it ?
the seamicro fabric does not extend beyond the single enclosure boundary , but that appears to be an implementation decision , not a fundamental architectural issue .
my personal belief is that fabric - based servers are the wave of the future , with seamicro calxeda / hp serving as very significant guidelines for future development .
scaling the fabric first for management and then for actual data traffic for shared i / o and eventually for coherent memory operations if needed is a natural progression .
3 . what other ip will amd add ?
amd has an interesting portfolio of gpu technology as well as cpu , and the incorporation of gpu technology could provide further differentiation in niche markets .
amd has a choice of ways to monetize this ip , from selling systems based on its own processors ( possibly as early as late this year ) to providing reference designs and / or licensing the architecture or selling components like the fabric asics .
4 . will they also support arm processors ?
if amd becomes the source of licensed ip for vendors wanting to chase hp in ultra - dense servers , they can also make money by licensing their technology and selling components for non - x86 architectures .
5 . what will intel do ?
at least one of intel " s partners , hp , already has a fabric - based dense server design that can support x86 .
will intel develop a similar reference architecture in the hopes that their major systems partners will adopt it ?
all in all , many ways this could play out , but a bold move and one that may serve to trigger a rapid change in the types of servers available to users over the next 24 months .
3 / 27 / 2012 @ 10 : 05am .
amd completes seamicro acquisition headed to $9 .
amd has completed its acquisition of seamicro as part of its strategy to regain lost server market share from intel and better position itself against future competition from arm - based players such as nvidia .
we previously wrote on how amd can benefit from this acquisition ( see amd picks up seamicro to strengthen server market offering ) .
here we take a brief look at the price that amd paid for seamicro , and what this implies about its growth expectations .
amd shelled out $334 million for the acquisition of seamicro .
since seamicro " s revenues or other financials were not disclosed , it becomes difficult to gauge whether the price paid was cheap or steep .
however , based on certain assumptions , it is possible to understand the range of amd " s growth expectations from seamicro .
for the purpose of calculations , we assume that seamicro operates at ebitda margin of close to 25% and apply similar corporate expenses ( as % of revenues ) including taxes , capital expenditures and others that we apply for amd .
if we assume seamicro " s revenues for 2012 will be somewhere around $50 million , it implies that amd expects seamicro " s revenues to grow at an average annual rate of 43% to 44% over the course of our forecast period , which extends till 2018 .
these revenues include both seamicro " s revenues as well as incremental benefit in server - related revenues from the acquisition .
on the other hand , if we assume seamicro " s revenues for 2012 to be of the order of $150 million , it implies that amd " s growth expectation for seamicro and related incremental server revenues stands at somewhere around 16% to 17% .
according to amd " s own calculations , it has paid a handsome price for the acquisition .
our price estimate for amd stands at $9 . 21 , implying a premium of little under 15% to the market price .
hp to acquire data center consultants .
on november 13 , 2007 .
electronics manufacturer hewlett - packard ( hp . com ) announced on tuesday that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities ( eypmcf . com ) , a consulting company that specializes in strategic technology planning , design and operations support for large - scale data centers .
although no financial terms of the transaction were disclosed , it is expected to be completed within hp " s first fiscal quarter .
by acquiring eyp mcf , hp will be able to help customers to better transform their data centers , optimize energy efficiency and position them for future business growth , says the company .
headquartered in new york , eyp mcf has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the us and the uk .
the firm provides mission - critical services to enterprises around the world in business sectors including financial services , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state and county government agencies .
hp says that eyp mcf " s capabilities , particularly its expertise in energy - efficient operations , complement hp " s extensive data center services and cost - saving power and cooling solutions , such as dynamic smart cooling .
" the data center is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " says john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp services .
" acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp " s ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . " .
hewlett - packard makes another acquisition , chases ibm .
posted nov 14th 2007 12 : 41pm .
hewlett - packard corp . ( nyse : hpq ) has opened up its checkbook once again .
this time , the world's largest tech company by sales announced that it will be buying eyp mission critical facilities inc .
that company , which provides data center consulting services , will become a division of hp for an undisclosed sum , according to sources .
is this a move to compete more headily with tech giant ibm corp . ( nyse : ibm ) ?
it could certainly be seen that way .
hp's growing presence in providing data center services and contract consulting is the core of ibm's business model these days , now that the latter is out of the hardware business .
eyp provides design , technology planning and support for large data centers - - the kind that runs a large u . s . bank , credit card operation or manufacturing business .
this is right in ibm's territory , and the move should put hp in a more competitive position to challenge ibm as a premier provider of computing services consulting .
does hp's mark hurd want to grow the company he leads into the biggest computing hardware and services manufacturing company the world has ever seen ?
in a word , yes .
november 15 , 2007 , 7 : 40 am .
hewlett - packard engineers deal for eyp .
hewlett - packard agreed to buy eyp mission critical facilities , a data center engineering firm , for an undisclosed sum in a deal that will provide an exit for ta associates .
the boston private equity firm invested $57 . 5 million in eyp mission critical in 2001 .
the target " s officials said at the time its post - money valuation was about $120 million .
hp's mark hurd : thoughts on consolidation .
summary : during his keynote at oracle openworld , hp ceo mark hurd gave his views on market consolidation .
it's an appropriate setting given oracle has made 41 acquisitions in 45 months totalling .
november 12 , 2007 - - 18 : 19 gmt ( 10 : 19 pst ) .
during his keynote at oracle openworld , hp ceo mark hurd gave his views on market consolidation .
it's an appropriate setting given oracle has made 41 acquisitions in 45 months totalling .
hp is no slouch at acquisitions in its post - compaq era , with more than 20 in the last few years , including mercury for $4 . 5 billion for and most recently opsware for $1 . 6 billion .
today , hp announced a small acquisition , eyp mission critical facilities , a datacenter consulting service with 350 employees , while oracle took a day off from its pursuits , which recently included bea .
hurd sees continuing industry consolidation and vertical integration going forward , which is no surprise .
lately , some mid - size companies being bought out by private equity firms , and the larger companies are still on the hunt .
today , ibm took out cognos for $5 billion .
but he seems to suggest that the market is shaping up for some very large scale transactions in the next few years .
"in the end , math wins .
a handful of players have in excess of $100 billion in cash revenue .
we'll see more consolidation , not less .
at the same time , we are all getting a push from an it perspective to do more standardization and to have fewer suppliers , " hurd said .
over time , fewer suppliers means moving from the large buying the small - and medium - sized to the large munching on the large , more mergers of near equals , carving up the market into fewer fiefdoms within the complex bounds of global regulatory approval .
"it could happen in two or three years if the right alignment of players occurs , " he added .
hurd didn't elaborate on the "right alignment of players , " and made a point of saying that he wasn't making a prediction .
he explained that companies with lots of cash can pay dividends to shareholders , buy back stock or make acquisitions .
"you have to measure the value of the three choices , and in many cases potential m&amp;a activities will rise to the top . " .
"you can figure it out as well as i can , " hurd told the rapt openworld crowd .
"the numbers won't mislead you . " .
hurd is well known for his acumen with the numbers , but gave no further insights .
following the trajectory of the numbers for a moment , it's not that far fetched to see hp and oracle in a consolidation supernova if the planets align in a certain way .
or , how about sap and ibm , or some other combination .
or cisco and hp .
or microsoft and ? ? ?
take your pick .
it's just ungoverned speculation , but consolidation in maturing market tends toward singularity .
of course , that could be the beginning of the end for those long established brands , as google or a company no one had heard of rears its head and completely changes the rules of the game .
nov 13 , 2007 , 1 : 17pm est .
hp will buy eyp mission critical facilities .
hp of palo alto , calif . , said it has agreed to acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design and operations support for large data centers .
financial terms were not disclosed .
headquartered in new york city , eyp mcf has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the united states and the united kingdom .
its albany office , at 54 state st . , had total capital region engineering billings of $7 . 2 million in 2006 , according to the business review's latest list of engineering firms .
twenty of the office's 40 employees are engineers .
hp said eyp mcf's expertise in energy - efficient operations are an attractive complement to hp's data center services and its power and cooling products and services . .
peter gross , ceo of eyp mcf , said worldwide data - center requirements are growing rapidly .
significant increases in power consumption is fueling demand for greater energy - efficiency , he said , which eyp mcf and hp will incorporate in the planning and design of data centers .
hp expects the transaction to be completed during hp's first fiscal quarter , which will end jan . 31 , 2008 .
hewlett - packard to buy consulting firm eyp mission critical facilities news	 .
15 november 2007 .
technology products and services company hewlett - packard said on monday 12 november that it has agreed to buy data centre consulting company eyp mission critical facilities for an undisclosed sum .
the new york - based eyp specialises in technology planning , design and operations support for large data centres .
it has about 350 employees with offices in the us and the uk .
its customers are in the financial services , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and health care sectors , as well as the government .
hp said the acquisition will boost its ability to help clients improve their data centres and build new computing environments .
the deal is expected to close in january 2008 .
can eds remain vendor-neutral under hp' s thumb ?
will eds remain open-minded about obtaining products and services from other vendors ?
industry analysts contacted by eweek generally say they believe that hewlett-packard 's forthcoming $ 13.9 billion acquisition of electronic data systems ? announced officially on may 13 is a good move for both companies , although there will be the usual integration snafus over vendor neutrality issues , business lines , culture shock and layoffs .
analysts have also said it is a good move overall for customers and potential customers , because the combined company will offer them a greater palette of products and services from which to choose .
a combined hp-eds will certainly put a new kind of pressure on it services leader ibm .
ibm 's $ 54 billion-per-year global services arm-by far the largest in the world-will start to feel the heat from the combined hp-eds entity , which will start out at a net worth of $ 38 billion per year .
for high-end enterprise it services before this merger , the market consisted of ibm and everybody else .
it swiss army knife is all can openers .
the biggest unanswered question on people 's minds involved vendor neutrality for eds and its current customers .
eds for years was a sort of it swiss army knife in that it used whatever products and services from other vendors were needed to complete its job correctly and within budget constraints .
with its impending new ownership by one of those key vendors , that picture may change .
" we do n't know what will happen with eds ' vendor neutrality , " rick sturm , founder and president of enterprise management associates , told eweek .
overall , my take is that this transaction sounds great in theory , but there many potential pitfalls .
this is one of them .
for example , eds has largely standardized on management software from ca .
will they migrate to hp software now ?
that would take a long time and a lot of money , " sturm said .
" on the other hand , it does n't make sense to help support a competitor with license and maintenance fees .
that is just one small point regarding neutrality . " .
eds , in fact , has a large current contract with ca for network and systems management in direct competition to hp 's openview .
ca had no immediate comment may 13 .
at least initially , sturm said , there will be little noticeable impact on customers from the deal .
" there will probably be some service impacts once the organizations truly merge and consolidate resources , " he said .
" [ hp cio ] randy mott has been driving data center consolidation and standardization .
i expect that effort will be renewed with eds .
disruptions are inevitable with such migrations . " .
hp acquires eyp mission critical facilities .
november 12th , 2007 .
hp has signed a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . ( eyp mcf ) , one of the leading data center design and engineering firms .
hp said the acquisition will help its customers equip their data centers for improved energy efficiency and high - density environments .
financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed .
eyp mcf is headquartered in new york and has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the united states and the u . k .
the company has designed hundreds of technology - intensive mission critical facilities .
eyp mcf " s expertise in green data center design and energy efficiency was a driver in the deal , as it aligns with hp " s extensive power and cooling solutions , such as dynamic smart cooling .
" the data center is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " said john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp services .
" acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp " s ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . " .
" worldwide data center requirements are rapidly growing , with significant year - over - year increases in power consumption , which is fueling demand for energy - efficient power and cooling strategies , " said peter gross , chief executive officer of eyp mcf .
" hp and eyp mission critical facilities will drive innovation by integrating it infrastructure into the planning and design of the data center , enabling the customer " s whole organization to be more energy efficient and adaptive . " .
eyp staff are familiar to many in the industry for their presentations at conferences .
gross has spoke often on the advantages of dc power distribution in data centers , while richard sawyer has given well - received presentations on managing risk from the emergency power off ( epo ) button .
the deal is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed within hp " s first fiscal quarter .
hewlett-packard is negotiating to buy technology services provider electronic data systems in a deal that could help the world 's largest personal computer maker snap up more data management and consulting contracts .
palo alto-based hp and plano , texas-based eds confirmed the talks yesterday shortly after the wall street journal reported a deal could be reached as early as today .
citing unnamed people familiar with the matter , the journal said hp will pay $ 12 billion to $ 13 billion - a price that translates to $ 24 to $ 26 per share .
the companies declined to comment beyond their confirmation of the talks .
eds shares soared $ 5.27 , or nearly 28 percent , to finish yesterday at $ 24.13 .
hp shares dropped $ 2.49 , more than 5 percent , to close at $ 46.64 as investors fretted over the deal 's logistics .
hp ended january with nearly $ 10 billion in cash .
with a market value of about $ 115 billion , hp could easily use its own stock to finance the purchase .
like many corporate marriages , bringing together hp and eds could trigger cultural clashes that ruin the union , said amr research analyst dana stiffler .
" palo alto versus plano wrangling will destroy any short-medium-term benefit unless there 's a strong integration road map , " she predicted .
if the deal is completed , it would be hp 's biggest acquisition since it bought compaq computer corp. for $ 19 billion in 2002 .
hp has been trying to expand its technology consulting and data management business for years , hoping to challenge rival ibm 's leadership in the lucrative field .
in 2000 , hp attempted to buy pricewaterhousecoopers ' consulting division before those discussions unraveled .
ibm wound up buying pricewaterhousecoopers ' consulting arm instead .
the demand for technology consulting and customer support services has steadily grown during the past two decades as the automation of corporate america and the rise of the internet prompted more businesses to hire outside help to help ensure all the computer software and hardware runs smoothly .
ibm 's technology services division brought in revenue of $ 54 billion last year , accounting for half of the company 's total sales .
combined , eds and hp 's technology services division had about $ 39 billion in revenue last year .
acquiring eds also could yield more government work for hp , which had about $ 500 million in prime federal contracts in fiscal 2007 .
eds is far better connected , with deals worth about $ 2.5 billion - putting it among the top 10 among government technology contractors .
combined , hp and eds still would lag significantly behind government contractors such as lockheed martin corp. and boeing company .
eds earned $ 716 million on $ 22.1 billion in revenue last year .
the texas company has been linked with possible deals previously , including a reported interest by deutsche telekom late last year and dell before that .
none of the companies ever confirmed reports that they were talking .
former ibm salesman h. ross perot left ibm to start eds in 1962 and practically invented the business of running other companies ' computer systems , now called information-technology or it services .
perot sold eds to general motors for $ 2.5 billion in 1984 and eventually became so disillusioned with how that deal worked out that he sold his remaining eds shares to the carmaker so he could start a rival service bearing his name .
gm spun off eds as an independent company in 1996 and remained its largest customer .
eds was riding high at the start of the decade , despite the dot-com bubble 's bursting .
but in late 2002 , earnings shortfalls led to investor lawsuits , a securities and exchange commission investigation , the ouster of the chief executive and a sharp drop in the stock price .
the company lost $ 1.7 billion in 2003 , but it gradually righted itself under ceo michael jordan , a retired cbs and westinghouse ceo who was hired to lead a turnaround .
jordan fixed some money-losing contracts , including a multibillion-dollar deal to build a communications network for the navy and marine corps , and began cutting costs by sending thousands of jobs to low-cost countries such as india .
hp to expand data center services with acquisition of global consulting company eyp mission critical facilities .
nov . 12 , 2007 .
hp today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . ( eyp mcf ) , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design and operations support for large - scale data centers .
by acquiring eyp mcf , hp will be better able to help customers to transform their data centers , optimize energy efficiency and position them for future business growth .
financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed .
headquartered in new york , eyp mcf has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the united states and the u . k .
the firm provides mission - critical services to enterprises around the world in business sectors including financial services , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state and county government agencies .
from data centers and command and control centers , to trading floors and supercomputing sites , eyp mcf has designed hundreds of technology - intensive , high - performance facilities where monitoring , operational and energy efficiencies are top - priority business requirements .
eyp mcf " s capabilities -- particularly its expertise in energy - efficient operations -- complement hp " s extensive data center services and cost - saving power and cooling solutions , such as dynamic smart cooling .
" the data center is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " said john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp services .
" acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp " s ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . " .
peter gross , chief executive officer of eyp mcf , said , " worldwide data center requirements are rapidly growing , with significant year - over - year increases in power consumption , which is fueling demand for energy - efficient power and cooling strategies .
hp and eyp mission critical facilities will drive innovation by integrating it infrastructure into the planning and design of the data center , enabling the customer " s whole organization to be more energy efficient and adaptive . " .
the transaction is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed within hp " s first fiscal quarter .
media teleconference .
hp will hold a media teleconference to discuss the announcement at 7 : 15 - 7 : 45 a . m . pt today .
dial - in number : +1 877 268 9324 .
conference id : 24256919 .
a replay of the call will be available later in the day .
about eyp mission critical facilities , inc .
eyp mission critical facilities , inc . ( www . eypmcf . com ) is a consulting firm whose unique approach to achieving clients " energy - efficient operational continuity is based upon the integration of strategic technology planning , innovative design and on - site support .
through developing proprietary products and processes , authoring technical white papers , and presenting at international conferences , eyp mcf is recognized as a worldwide thought leader in the mission - critical industry .
about hp .
hp focuses on simplifying technology experiences for all of its customers -- from individual consumers to the largest businesses .
with a portfolio that spans printing , personal computing , software , services and it infrastructure , hp is among the world " s largest it companies , with revenue totaling $100 . 5 billion for the four fiscal quarters ended july 31 , 2007 .
more information about hp ( nyse : hpq ) is available at http : / / www . hp . com .
hewlett-packard bets eds will fuel hot streak .
with its second-largest deal , computer giant hopes to grab bigger share of the $ 550 billion technology-services market .
riding a hot streak that has doubled its stock price in three years , hewlett-packard is rolling the dice on a $ 13.2 billion acquisition of technology services provider electronic data systems .
the all-cash deal , announced tuesday , represents hp 's biggest gamble under the leadership of mark hurd , who was hired as chief executive in march 2005 to turn around the maker of personal computers and printers .
hurd has relentlessly cut costs while demanding better execution from the company 's remaining workers .
meanwhile , hp has recovered from a nagging financial hangover that was exacerbated by the biggest acquisition in its 69-year history -- the $ 19 billion purchase of compaq computer , completed in 2002 over strident shareholder objections .
hewlett-packard 's purchase of electronic data systems could mean tougher competition for ibm and its 10,500 triangle employees .
hp estimates that the deal , when completed , will give it about 7 percent of the technology services market , compared with ibm 's 10 percent share .
that means that if things go well long term , hp could catch big blue in the business of providing technology services such as data management , information technology outsourcing and consulting , said morningstar equity analyst rick hanna .
" while ibm is a clear no. 1 now ... hp-eds is a real player and potentially a long-term threat , " hanna said .
in the short term , ibm has little to worry about , hanna said , given its clear leadership in technology services , which accounts for about 60 percent of its revenue .
now hp will try to show that it learned from its mistakes by making the second-largest deal in its history pay off more quickly .
investors are worried that hp is taking an unnecessary risk on eds , whose disappointing profit margins had caused its stock to drop by about 30 percent in the past year .
hp shares sagged $ 2.56 tuesday to finish at $ 44.27 .
" it appears to be a very daunting deal , " said american technology research analyst shaw wu .
the $ 25-per-share sale price represents a nice payoff for eds stockholders , who will receive a nearly 33 percent premium compared with the company 's share price before news of the hp talks leaked out monday .
eds shares added 26 cents to close at $ 24.34 tuesday .
including eds ' net debt , hp values the acquisition at $ 13.9 billion .
based on eds ' nearly 530 million common shares , restricted stock units and options , the sales prices works out to $ 13.2 billion .
that represents about one-fourth of the $ 50 billion increase in hp 's market value since hurd joined the company .
hp prizes eds because it wants to become a much bigger competitor in technology services -- a wide-ranging category that includes running computer data centers , stitching together software programs and consulting on special projects for business and government clients .
hp gets into data center design ; acquires eyp mission critical facilities .
published : 13 nov 2007 .
hewlett - packard co . announced yesterday that it will acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . , a data center consulting business , to bolster its own position in the data center facilities space .
big blue to meet its match in hp-eds .
the repercussions from the merger of electronic data systems ( eds quote - cramer on eds - stock picks ) with hewlett-packard ( hpq quote - cramer on hpq - stock picks ) will ripple broadly throughout the tech industry .
h-p announced tuesday that it will buy the outsourcing services company for $ 13.9 billion .
the deal will be bad " for anyone that does n't have h-p or ibm ( ibm quote - cramer on ibm - stock picks ) on their business card , " said idc analyst bob welch .
even ibm , the leader in the global services and outsourcing business , will ultimately feel the pressure. gartner puts the worldwide market for it services in 2007 at $ 748 billion .
with $ 54 billion in services revenue , ibm had 7.2 % of the market .
at $ 22 billion , eds had 3 % , while h-p had 2.3 % .
and the merger could throw a wrench into eds 's agility alliance , a group of vendors that regularly coordinate to supply hardware , networking , software and services to eds 's outsourcing clients .
the partnership has been very effective for eds and its partners , welch said .
hp acquires eyp mission critical facilities .
hp today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design , and operations support for large - scale data centers .
11 / 12 / 2007 .
hp today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities inc . ( eyp mcf ) , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design , and operations support for large - scale data centers .
by acquiring eyp mcf , hp will be better able to help customers to transform their data centers , optimize energy efficiency , and position them for future business growth .
headquartered in new york , eyp mcf has approximately 350 employees with 13 offices in the united states and the uk .
the firm provides mission - critical services to enterprises around the world in business sectors including financial services , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing , and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state , and county government agencies .
from data centers and command and control centers , to trading floors and supercomputing sites , eyp mcf has designed hundreds of technology - intensive , high - performance facilities where monitoring , operational , and energy efficiencies are top - priority business requirements .
eyp mcf " s capabilities %%mdassml%% particularly its expertise in energy - efficient operations %%mdassml%% complement hp " s extensive data center services and cost - saving power and cooling solutions , such as dynamic smart cooling .
" the data center is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " said john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp services .
" acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp " s ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . " .
peter gross , chief executive officer of eyp mcf , said , " worldwide data center requirements are rapidly growing , with significant year - over - year increases in power consumption , which is fueling demand for energy - efficient power and cooling strategies .
hp and eyp mission critical facilities will drive innovation by integrating it infrastructure into the planning and design of the data center , enabling the customer " s whole organization to be more energy efficient and adaptive . " .
the transaction is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed within hp " s first fiscal quarter .
hp and eds combined would be about the same size as ibm global services .
industry sources have confirmed to eweek that hewlett-packard will acquire electronic data systems for about $ 13 billion .
the announcement may come as early as may 14 , the source told eweek .
hp acknowledged the news first earlier may 12 .
" there can be no assurances that an agreement will be reached or that a transaction will be consummated , " hp said in a statement .
" hp does not intend to comment further until an agreement is reached or discussions are terminated . " .
eds 's response came about an hour later , also in the form of a statement .
in response to market rumors , electronic data systems corporation announces that it is in advanced discussions regarding a possible business combination transaction with hewlett-packard company .
the company does not intend to comment further unless and until a definitive agreement has been entered into .
there can be no assurance that a definitive agreement will be entered into , " the eds statement read .
the impending deal would make the newly merged company worth about $ 22 billion and put it on a level with ibm , the largest it services company in the world .
eds is the world leader in outsourced it services ; .
hp provides outsourced services too , but focuses mostly on hardware , software and associated services .
hp to acquire data center cooling , energy specialist eyp .
november 12 , 2007 03 : 57 pm .
hewlett - packard on monday said it has agreed to buy eyp mission critical facilities , a consulting company that specializes in data center cooling and energy efficiency .
financial terms were not disclosed .
the acquisition , expected to close by the end of january , would provide hp with proprietary services and technology related to one of the hottest issues today in data center planning and design .
because eyp services start at the ground level of data - center design , the company would give hp an early entry with its cooling technology and energy - efficient storage products .
eyp , based in new york , has 350 employees spread through 13 offices in the united states and the united kingdom .
most of its operations , employees , and management team would be folded into hp .
eyp is led by chairman steven einhorn and chief executive peter gross .
the need for more storage is growing as companies expand their businesses and strive to meet legal and regulatory requirements for handling electronic documents .
additional storage , however , also can increase energy consumption to run and cool more powerful servers .
eyp's proprietary products and services include eneropt , a software - based process to assess and benchmark energy efficiency ; a cooling design concept called cool design ; and a direct current powered facility design called dc2 .
"acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp's ability to help customers transform their data centers and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up , " john mccain , senior vp and general manager for hp services , said in a statement .
industries in which eyp has customers include financial services , technology , telecommunications , broadcast , manufacturing , and health care .
the company also serves federal , state and local government agencies .
besides the eyp deal , hp has made other data center - related acquisitions this year .
the largest was the $1 . 6 billion purchase of opsware , a maker of data center automation software ; and the $214 million buy of neoware , a maker of hardware and software for thin - client desktop systems .
impact of eds merger on south charleston unclear .
it 's too early to tell what impact - if any - hewlett-packard co. 's decision to acquire electronic data systems corp. will have on eds ' operations in south charleston , an eds spokesman said .
earlier this month hewlett-packard unveiled a bid of nearly $ 14 billion bid to purchase eds .
eds has about 50 employees in building 6000 at the south charleston technology park .
the workers manage the federal department of housing and urban development 's computer network of more than 18,000 users in more than 80 locations .
eds won the 10-year contract in 2003 .
bill ritz , eds spokesman , pointed out that hewlett-packard 's acquisition of eds still needs the approval of regulators and eds ' stockholders .
" the deal is supposed to close sometime in the second half of 2008 , " ritz said .
" until it closes , both companies are competitors and it will be business as usual .
we will continue to put our customers first and serve them and help them compete in the global marketplace . " .
any cuts in staff are pure speculation at this point , ritz said .
" a lot of work still needs to be done , " he said .
" we need to let this play out and keep the focus on our customers and remember we are separate companies now . " .
hp snaps up data center consulting firm .
posted 2007 - 11 - 12 .
the acquisition of eyp mission critical facilities will help the oem expand its services division .
in a move that will expand its services division , hewlett - packard will acquire eyp mission critical facilities , a new york company that offers data center consulting services .
financial details of the acquisition , announced nov . 12 , were not disclosed .
hp announced that the deal would close during its first financial quarter .
eyp mission , which has 350 employees and 13 offices in the united states and the united kingdom , helps plan , design , build and support large - scale data centers .
in a statement , hp executives said eyp missions emphasis on designing energy - efficient facilities will complement its own data center technology , such as hp dynamic smart cooling .
at the hp technology forum &amp; expo in june , ceo mark hurd said the company needs to move away from its traditional roots as a hardware company that sells pcs and servers and toward a business that focuses on delivering software and services to customers .
part of the change is to offer more services for businesses that are looking to revamp or build new data centers , with an emphasis on offering better power efficiency by cutting down on power and cooling costs .
in addition to hp , the other top - tier oems--ibm sun microsystems and dell--have looked to expand their services divisions as a way to add to the bottom line , while offering customers a new set of choices to support data centers by lending their own level of expertise to the problems of maintaining these types of facilities .
"the data center is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " john mccain , senior vice president and general manager of hp services , said in a statement .
eyp mission has experience in a number of fields that require data center services , including financial services , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state and county government agencies .
hewlett-packard 's ceo says he believes the eds acquisition will make the company 's service offerings stronger .
hewlett-packard ceo mark hurd believes that the $ 13 billion acquisition of electronic data systems will help build out hp 's enterprise services offerings and " accelerate " the company 's reach into new accounts , he said .
in a may 20 conference call with reporters to announce hp 's 2008 second-quarter financial earnings , hurd offered his thoughts on the upcoming acquisition of eds .
while hurd could not say when the deal would close , he noted that hp is already looking at ways to integrate its software and services portfolio with eds ' business .
hurd implied that hp will streamline costs to make the acquisition profitable for shareholders as soon as possible .
several analysts have said they believe that hp , through its acquisition of eds and other companies , is looking to build a services division that will create an all-in-one shop for building state-of-the art data centers .
hp to acquire green consultancy eyp .
hp signs agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facilities and incorporate energy - efficient - facilities expertise into hp's data center services .
november 12 , 2007 02 : 14 pm et .
as part of its efforts to support energy - efficient computing , hp monday announced it has signed an agreement to acquire facilities consulting firm eyp mission critical facilities for an undisclosed sum .
hp says the deal , which will bring eyp mcf's 350 employees into a new division under hp services , will help hp better address customers' needs for more efficient data centers .
the combined eyp and hp services will let large , enterprise companies couple efficient facilities design with an optimized it infrastructure .
until recently , hp officials say , it executives handled facilities and data - center design efforts separately .
with this acquisition , hp aims to bring the two more closely together and help build dynamic computing environments from the start .
"data center transformation is a key focal point for the hp services team , " says john mccain , senior vice president and general manager of hp services .
"power consumption is becoming one of the largest components in terms of the bill in data centers today . " .
to combat the increase in energy spending , hp labs has developed technology to conserve energy and delivers it via such products as hp dynamic smart cooling and hp thermal zone mapping .
the deal , according to eyp mcf representatives , will let consultants expand beyond facilities planning and offer expertise in large - scale data - center design .
"it infrastructure is ready for a major paradigm shift in the way that mission - critical facilities are delivered to the marketplace , " says steve einhorn , chairman of eyp mcf .
"the data center and its facility are ready for a major change . " .
hp says it expects the deal to close by its first fiscal 2008 quarter , which ends january 31 .
november 12 , 2007 .
hp lands green datacenter consultant eyp .
extending its reach into the ripening green - consulting space , hp today announced the acquisition of eyp mission critical facilities , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design and operations support for large - scale datacenters .
extending its reach into the ripening green - consulting space , hp today announced the acquisition of eyp mission critical facilities , a consulting company specializing in strategic technology planning , design and operations support for large - scale datacenters .
the financial details of the acquisition were not disclosed .
hp's aim , however , is clear : to tap into the growing demand for more energy - efficient datacenters by bolstering its existing data center services , and no doubt hawking more hp gear along the way .
"the datacenter is the foundation of it for enterprises , an essential building block for driving business growth and adapting to changing business objectives , " said john mccain , senior vice president and general manager of hp services in a written statement .
"acquiring eyp mission critical facilities boosts hp's ability to help customers transform their datacenters and build dynamic computing environments from the ground up . " .
eyp has developed a green reputation since its establishment in 2001 as a split - off from a / e giant einhorn yaffee prescott .
headquartered in new york with 13 offices worldwide and technical staff of more than 350 , the company's arsenal of tools includes a homegrown software package called eneropt , designed to assess and optimize energy consumption in the datacenter .
among its clients , the company claims 25 percent of the fortune magazine's list of top epa green partners .
moreover , the company designed the first leed - rated datacenter for fannie mae in urbana , maryland , and is currently designing a datacenter for the lawrence berkeley national labs .
like other big - name hardware companies , including ibm , dell , and sun , hp has been playing up the green credentials of its wares , such as its smart dynamic cooling offering , power capping features in its systems insight manager software , and its recently announced line of more energy - efficient proliant bl460c blades .
moreover , the big boys of technology have also started adding more green - hued services to their portfolios .
in august , ibm added http : / / blogs . business2 . com / greenwombat / 2007 / 08 / ibm - moves - into - . html "&gt;carbon consulting to business consulting operation .
also in august , sun unveiled an eco services suite .
bt is also on the list .
hp's acquisition of eyp is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to be completed within hp's first fiscal quarter .
hp digs further into consulting .
november 12 , 2007 10 : 30 pm .
hp has been moving fast and strong into services and have continued the trend with today's acquisition of eyp mission critical facilities , a consulting firm specializing in large data center design and operations support .
coming on the heels of last month's expansion of their saas offerings , one imagines that before long you will simply be able to turn your keys over to hp and take off on a long vacation while they provision , support , and run your business .
in fact , this may not be far from the vision that ceo mark hurd has for the company , as revealed today also during his keynote speech at oracle's openworld conference .
consolidation has clearly been on his mind , and the recent acquisitions presage more in the future , driven as he states by " ... a push from an it perspective to do more standardization and to have fewer suppliers , " as well as a number of players with an excess of cash on hand .
while i am certainly one of those pushing from the it perspective to have fewer suppliers and more standardization , you have to be careful how you go about it , and although i am sure acquisition such as eyp mcf are brilliant for hp's business , i am skeptical about their value to customers .
i think the conflation of purveyors of advice with purveyors of service and equipment is dangerous and if anyone was expecting to get unbiased opinion out of eyp mcf about the gear to build out their data center with , that's probably gone by the wayside .
consolidation can be a boon when it results in better alignment and firmer standards ; the danger is when the alignment locks you in to a vendor and the standards turn out to be proprietary .
jury convicts man in woman's death .
saturday , 28 september 2013 01 : 43	 .
a jury in eastern oklahoma has convicted a spiro man of two counts of first - degree murder in the 2012 shooting death of his pregnant girlfriend .
the jury deliberated almost seven hours thursday before convicting 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson in the death of 20 - year - old ka'loni flynn , of fort smith , ark .
the jury recommended the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole , the southwest times record reported ( http : / / bit . ly / 16vdn3e ) .
he is to be sentenced nov . 8 .
prosecutors allege that simpson shot flynn twice in the head because he did not want another child to support .
a dna expert testified that simpson fathered the fetus .
"i'm glad it's over .
i'm glad we got the verdict we got , " said flynn's father , herbert flynn .
"she deserved it . " .
during closing arguments , crawford county deputy prosecuting attorney jacob howell showed a photograph of flynn's body in the driver's seat of car , with bullet wounds to her temple and forehead .
some audience members gasped loudly .
"we know that's how we got here , " howell said , indicating the photo .
prosecutors acknowledged that the case against simpson was complicated and mostly circumstantial .
jury convicts spiro man in shooting death of pregnant girlfriend .
posted : sep 27 , 2013 5 : 50 pm .
updated : sep 27 , 2013 5 : 50 pm .
a jury in eastern oklahoma has convicted a spiro man of two counts of first - degree murder in the 2012 shooting death of his pregnant girlfriend .
the jury deliberated almost seven hours thursday before convicting 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson in the death of 20 - year - old ka'loni flynn of fort smith , ark .
the southwest times record reports that the jury recommended the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole .
formal sentencing is set for 11 a . m . on nov . 8 .
prosecutors allege that simpson shot flynn twice in the head because he did not want another child to support .
a dna expert testified that simpson fathered the fetus .
simpson's attorney , warren gotcher , argued that no witnesses could place simpson at the shooting scene and that his client was innocent .
the murder trial of a spiro man charged in the deaths of a pregnant arkansas woman and her fetus is underway in poteau .
prosecutors have charged 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson with two counts of first - degree murder in the april 2012 shooting death of 20 - year - old ka'loni flynn of fort smith and the resulting death of the fetus .
the times record reported friday that trial is expected to last several days .
prosecutors say simpson called flynn several times and arranged to meet her on a rural road , then shot her in the head .
defense attorney warren gotcher said simpson did not call flynn and never owned a phone like the one that called her the night she was killed .
gotcher also denied that simpson was the father of flynn's baby .
scott peterson has been found guilty of first-degree murder , a verdict that means he could be executed if these same jurors vote as the " conscience of their community " that he deserves to die for his crimes .
so scott peterson was convicted because he 's a liar and a cheat and a fink and because his famous lawyer was unable to come up with a plausible explanation for why laci peterson 's body washed up where it washed up .
in fact , he was convicted in part because defense attorney mark geragos offered so many explanations for peterson 's conduct and laci 's disappearance that prosecutors were able to make jurors laugh about the implausibility of them all .
in essence , the jury concluded that the circumstances surrounding laci peterson 's disappearance and death could not reasonably be explained in any other way but that scott peterson wanted her dead so he could continue and perhaps expand his secret life with amber frey .
peterson was found guilty because jurors believed he had a motive to kill his wife and that peterson 's conduct -- before , during and after laci peterson 's disappearance -- was too suspicious to be purely coincidental .
posted september 26 , 2013 - 3 : 47pm updated september 27 , 2013 - 6 : 56am .
leflore jury : simpson guilty of killing pregnant girlfriend .
a spiro man was found guilty of two counts of first - degree murder thursday evening in the 2012 shooting death of a fort smith woman and the subsequent death of her 8 - to 12 - week - old fetus .
a nine - woman , three - man leflore county jury deliberated almost seven hours before finding christopher kenyon simpson , 27 , guilty of two counts of first - degree murder .
jurors recommended the maximum sentence , life without the possibility of parole and a $10 , 000 fine on both counts .
formal sentencing is set for 11 a . m . nov . 8 before leflore county district judge jon sullivan .
flynn's father herbert flynn of fort coffee said later , "i'm glad it's over .
i'm glad we got the verdict we got .
she deserved it . " .
after the courtroom emptied , crawford county deputy prosecuting attorney jacob howell and district 27 assistant district attorney anthony evans credited the verdict in the complicated and mostly circumstantial case to smart , attentive jurors .
in closing arguments on the sixth day of simpson's trial , howell projected onto a video screen a photo of 20 - year - old victim ka'loni flynn's body sitting in the driver's seat of her car , bullet wounds to her forehead and temples .
some audience members gasped audibly in the crowded , otherwise quiet courtroom gallery .
"we know that's how we got here , " howell said , indicating the photo .
"i hope we showed you this was investigated thoroughly , and that every possible suspect was investigated and excluded except one , " howell said .
the prosecution contends simpson planned the murders , then shot flynn execution - style twice in the head on easter sunday , april 8 , 2012 , killing her and her fetus because he did not want another child to support , and flynn refused an abortion .
a dna expert testified earlier that simpson fathered the fetus .
howell contended simpson's planning began in early april 2012 when he asked mackenzi clayton , a relative , about tracking a pay - as - you - go phone .
throughout the investigation and court proceedings , simpson repeatedly denied having bought such a phone despite a walmart video showing him doing so , then on wednesday he testified he bought it , but for clayton , not for himself , howell said .
howell reminded the jury that flynn's roommate testified flynn left their apartment around 10 : 30 p . m . april 8 , a time matching the 10 : 30 p . m . call simpson's cousin's wife testified she saw him engaged in at her garage .
howell reminded jurors that verizon wireless , cricket wireless and federal bureau of investigation cellular analysis experts testified about how the calls between the phone simpson purchased and flynn's phone pinged in cell towers covering the u . s . 271 corridor where simpson planned to spend the night with his cousins in fort smith and the rural mcginnis lane area between pocola and spiro where flynn's body was found .
between 10 : 37 and 10 : 58 p . m . april 8 , the pay - as - you - go phone called flynn's phone six times .
arkansas state trooper mary minor testified she pulled flynn over at 10 : 46 p . m . for speeding on interstate 540 .
flynn was heading toward oklahoma , minor stated .
howell said at 11 : 01 p . m . flynn's phone called the pay - as - you - go phone , and two employees of the sac - n - pac near mcginnis lane testified they heard two to three gunshots around 11 p . m .
howell contended simpson's whereabouts were not accounted for between 10 : 30 p . m . and 11 : 21 p . m . , when he made a purchase at an e - z mart near his cousins' home .
and howell reminded jurors that simpson's cousins testified they became concerned about simpson's prolonged absence for the quick trip to the e - z mart and called him three times beginning at 11 p . m .
those calls rolled to voice mail .
in his closing statement , defense attorney warren gotcher of mcalester argued that the two sac - n - pac clerks stayed outside on their smoke break for 10 minutes after hearing the gunshots and never saw a car exit mcginnis lane .
gotcher argued the timeline evidence showed simpson couldn't have been involved .
he said area resident erica hawkins saw flynn's car in the roadway at 11 : 41 p . m . , and pulled around to shine her bright headlights on it .
he reminded jurors that hawkins testified the driver's window was rolled down and she saw a red light inside the car , but she didn't see anyone in the car .
gotcher suggested the light could have been from a phone charger found unattached on the seat next to flynn .
gotcher said when deputy terry springwater arrived on the scene around 3 a . m . april 9 , the car window was rolled only three - fourths the way down , the parking lights were on , the trunk was unlatched and there was a body in the car .
gotcher reminded jurors an oklahoma state bureau of investigation expert testified that flynn's body had not been moved after she was shot .
"sometime between 11 : 41 p . m . and 3 a . m . , the window was rolled three - fourths the way down , parking lights turned on and trunk unlatched and maybe the phone charger disconnected , " gotcher contended .
he contended , too , that clayton testified as the prosecution wished because he was afraid his parole would be revoked , and that simpson's cousins , likewise , testified as they had because they'd been threatened with a firearms charge and having their child taken away .
evans contended simpson attempted character assassination of flynn and attempted to divert blame for her murder to others because "the defendant has the spotlight on him , and it's hot , and he needs to get it off him .
so what does he do ?
he pushes it over here .
desperate men do desperate things . " .
evans contended simpson destroyed or manipulated evidence throughout the investigation .
"i submit to you that beyond a reasonable doubt , the defendant is guilty of killing ka'loni flynn , and when he shot her , he also killed his own child , " evans said .
on november 12 , a jury in redwood city , california , convicted scott peterson of first-degree murder in the death of his wife , 23-year-old laci , and second-degree murder in the death of his 8-month-old unborn son , whom the couple were planning to name conner .
laci disappeared from the couple 's home in modesto , california , 23 months ago .
the bodies of laci and conner later washed up in the san francisco bay , near where scott told police he had gone fishing the day his wife disappeared .
okla . man guilty of killing pregnant girlfriend .
published 9 : 46 pm cdt sep 26 , 2013 .
an oklahoma man was found guilty thursday on two first - degree murder charges for the deaths of an arkansas woman and her fetus , according to crawford county deputy prosecuting attorney jacob howell .
christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee is accused of fatally shooting ka'loni marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
prosecutors allege simpson shot flynn after she told him she was pregnant .
flynn's body was found in a car near spiro on april 9 .
simpson faces life in prison .
he will be sentenced november 8 .
dozens of people in laci peterson 's hometown who were donating blood in her memory applauded when they heard a jury 's decision to execute scott peterson for the murder of his pregnant wife .
oklahoma man pleads not guilty in deaths of arkansas woman and her fetus .
published : january 3 , 2013 .
an oklahoma man has pleaded not guilty to two first - degree murder charges for the deaths of an arkansas woman and her fetus .
trial is set for june 17 for 26 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee , who is accused of fatally shooting ka'loni marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
a local newspaper reports that simpson has been held without bond at the leflore county jail since his arrest on june 21 .
flynn's body was found in a car near spiro on april 9 .
prosecutors allege simpson shot flynn after she told him she was pregnant .
lawyers for simpson don't want prosecutors to be able to use phone records that allegedly place simpson in the area of the slaying on grounds that authorities obtained them without a warrant .
laci peterson 's loved ones have " a hole in their hearts that will never be repaired , " a prosecutor told jurors today as he asked them to send convicted double-murderer scott peterson to his death for killing his wife and unborn son .
the jury convicted the 32-year-old peterson on nov. 12 of first-degree murder for killing his wife and second-degree murder for the death of his unborn son .
okla . man guilty of killing pregnant girlfriend .
an oklahoma man was found guilty thursday on two first - degree murder charges for the deaths of an arkansas woman and her fetus , according to crawford county deputy prosecuting attorney jacob howell .
christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee is accused of fatally shooting ka'loni marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
prosecutors allege simpson shot flynn after she told him she was pregnant .
flynn's body was found in a car near spiro on april 9 .
simpson faces life in prison .
he will be sentenced november 8 .
peterson , 32 , was convicted of two counts of murder in the deaths of his wife , laci , and her fetus .
christopher simpson shoots pregnant girlfriend dead cause he didn't want another child to support .
an oklahoma jury has found 27 year old christopher simpson guilty of first degree murder of his then pregnant 20 year old girlfriend ka'loni flynn and their 12 week unborn child .
the murder came after flynn resisted simpson's demands to have an abortion and his reluctance with having to 'deal with another child to support . ' .
in finding christopher simpson guilty the jury recommended that he be sent to maximum life in prison without parole .
his sentencing is scheduled for november 8 .
prosecutors allege that simpson , who has at least one child from a past relationship , shot flynn twice in the head because he did not want another baby to support .
a dna expert testified that the 27 - year - old fathered the 12 - week - old fetus .
the murder is said to have taken place on april 9 at 3 am in flynn's car which was parked at the time .
it wasn't until in late june that authorities arrested christopher simpson believing that he was the chief instigator of her death .
told the deceased's father , herbert flynn jr : 'i'm glad it's over .
i'm glad we got the verdict we got .
she deserved it . ' .
during closing arguments , crawford county deputy prosecuting attorney jacob howell showed a photograph of flynn's body in the driver's seat of car , with bullet wounds to her temple and forehead .
prosecutors went on to acknowledge that the case against simpson was complicated and mostly circumstantial .
told howell : 'i hope we showed you this was investigated thoroughly , and that every possible suspect was investigated and excluded except one . ' .
simpson's attorney , warren gotcher , argued that no witnesses could place simpson at the crime scene and that his client was innocent .
prosecutor anthony evans countered by telling that simpson was trying to deflect blame because 'the defendant has the spotlight on him , and it's hot , and he needs to get it off him .
so what does he do ?
he pushes it over here .
desperate men do desperate things . ' .
according to a police affidavit , the couple had been dating for about three months when the 20 - year - old found out she was pregnant .
purportedly simpson became angry and expressed that he did not want to be a father again .
pushed to get an abortion , flynn declined telling christopher simpson that she did not believe in abortion .
of course the better question may have been if either one of the couple believed in using contraceptives and if not why ?
herbert flynn jr told 5news after simpson's arrest that on the night of his daughter's murder , she was planning to meet with her boyfriend to ask for help in applying for government assistance .
around the time of the shooting , simpson was late on child support payments for his 7 - year - old daughter , and according to a local sheriff , he had made statements to his friends that he did not want another child .
after flynn's death , a witness told police that simpson bragged to him that his girlfriend's killing will never be solved because it was 'too clean' and 'the perfect murder . ' .
the 20 - year - old woman , who aspired to be a nurse , allegedly told a friend a short time before the slaying that simpson had threatened to end the pregnancy for her if she refused to abort the baby .
the case first captured the nation 's attention when laci peterson disappeared from her modesto home the day before christmas 2002 and has engrossed the country ever since .
unlike on nov. 12 , when sobs filled the air as peterson was found guilty of murdering his wife and their unborn child , there was an almost surreal stillness in the courtroom while the death recommendation was announced .
peterson was convicted nov. 12 of first-degree murder for the death of laci peterson and second-degree murder for the death of their unborn son just before christmas 2002 .
the same jury that recommended peterson 's penalty found him guilty of the first-degree murder of his wife and the second-degree murder of his unborn child .
jury convicts spiro man in shooting death of pregnant girlfriend .
posted : sep 27 , 2013 10 : 50am cdt .
a jury in eastern oklahoma has convicted a spiro man of two counts of first - degree murder in the 2012 shooting death of his pregnant girlfriend .
the jury deliberated almost seven hours thursday before convicting 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson in the death of 20 - year - old ka'loni flynn of fort smith , ark .
the southwest times record reports that the jury recommended the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole .
formal sentencing is set for 11 a . m . on nov . 8 .
prosecutors allege that simpson shot flynn twice in the head because he did not want another child to support .
a dna expert testified that simpson fathered the fetus .
simpson's attorney , warren gotcher , argued that no witnesses could place simpson at the shooting scene and that his client was innocent .
a jury found scott peterson guilty friday of killing his pregnant wife , laci , and their unborn child in the saga of suburban adultery and betrayal that transfixed much of the nation for nearly two years .
peterson , a 32-year-old fertilizer salesman from modesto , showed no emotion , staring stonily at the jury box as the foreman announced a finding of first-degree murder in the death of laci and second-degree murder in the death of their near-term son , whom the couple had named conner .
man found guilty of shooting dead pregnant girlfriend execution - style because 'he didn't want another child to support' .
september 27 , 2013 .
a jury in eastern oklahoma has convicted a 27 - year - old man of shooting dead his pregnant girlfriend and her unborn baby after she refused to get an abortion .
the jury deliberated almost seven hours thursday before convicting christopher kenyon simpson , of spiro , in the death of 20 - year - old ka'loni flynn , of fort smith , arkansas .
the jurors recommended the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole .
simpson is scheduled to be sentenced november 8 .
upon learning of his death sentence , scott peterson sat defiantly still and tight-jawed , the same vacant expression he wore throughout a murder trial in which he never spoke .
man found guilty of shooting dead pregnant girlfriend execution - style because .
released 2013 - 09 - 28 05 : 08 : 35 gmt .
a jury in eastern oklahoma has convicted a 27 - year - old man of shooting dead his pregnant girlfriend and her unborn baby after she refused to get an abortion .
the jury deliberated almost seven hours thursday before convicting christopher kenyon simpson , .
an oklahoma man has pleaded not guilty to two first - degree murder charges for the deaths of an arkansas woman and her fetus .
trial is set for june 17 for 26 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee , who is accused of fatally shooting ka'loni marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
the southwest times record reports simpson has been held without bond at the leflore county jail since his arrest on june 21 .
flynn's body was found in a car near spiro on april 9 .
prosecutors allege simpson shot flynn after she told him she was pregnant .
lawyers for simpson don't want prosecutors to be able to use phone records that allegedly place simpson in the area of the slaying on grounds that authorities obtained them without a warrant .
the philadelphia 76ers fired coach maurice cheeks on saturday , one day after the team continued its slide with a season-worst offensive effort , dpa reported .
expected by many to be one of the top teams in the eastern conference , the 76ers have opened 9-14 with eight losses in their last 10 games , including friday 's dispirited 88-72 setback at cleveland .
cheeks was replaced on an interim basis by assistant general manager tony dileo , a long-time member of the team 's front office. dileo will coach the sixers in saturday 's game at washington and is expected to remain coach for the rest of the season .
a year ago , the sixers fired president billy king and replaced him with ed stefanski , who gave cheeks a one-year contract extension through the 2008-09 season and another one-year extension earlier this year , after philadelphia used a second-half surge to make the playoffs for the first time since 2005 .
" decisions of this nature are never easy , and this was particularly difficult due to the great amount of respect i have for maurice cheeks , " stefanski said .
" however , at this time i felt that it is in the best interest of this team to make a change while there is still time to accomplish the goals we set forth for ourselves at the start of the season . " .
in the off-season , stefanski landed free agent forward elton brand and reinked young stars andre iguodala and louis williams to long- term deals .
the addition of brand was supposed to transform philadelphia into a contender .
however , brand and iguodala have had difficulty getting their games to mesh .
cheeks has had disagreements with starting centre samuel dalembert , benching him for long stretches .
the team heard boos in wednesday 's home loss to cleveland .
a philadelphia fixture who spent his first 11 seasons as a player with the 76ers and had his number-10 jersey retired by the club , cheeks is 122-147 in three-plus seasons as head coach in the city of brotherly love .
cheeks came to philadelphia from portland , where he was 162-139 with two postseason appearances in three-plus seasons .
dileo has never been an nba coach .
he was a scout and assistant coach before moving into management as director of player personnel in 1999 .
he became assistant gm in 2003 .
dileo played and coached for 10 seasons in west germany and was named coach of the year in 1987 in the top west german league .
" tony dileo has a wealth of basketball knowledge and coaching experience - both in the nba and on the international level - and is familiar not only with our current group of players but the style of play we are striving to attain on a consistent basis , " stefanski said .
cheeks is the fifth coach fired this season , after pj carlesimo of oklahoma city , eddie jordan of washington , sam mitchell of toronto and randy wittman of minnesota .
there is speculation that stefanski may reach out to jordan , as the two worked together with the new jersey nets earlier this decade .
sixers hire maurice cheeks as head coach .
maurice cheeks was officially introduced as the 21st head coach of the 76ers .
cheeks , who played for the sixers for 11 seasons and served as an assistant coach for seven , was named coach after jim o'brien was relieved of his coaching duties .
maurice cheeks has been fired as head coach of the philadelphia 76ers following the club 's disappointing 9-14 start to the season .
the sixers have dropped their last three and are just 2-8 in their last ten after high expectations following an offseason that brought elton brand to philly .
cheeks had signed an extension to his contract in september that was guaranteed through next year but the club felt they needed to make a change to reverse their fortunes .
assistant general manager tony dileo will replace cheeks as the interim head coach and he is expected to hold the position through the year .
philadelphia fans had expected the 76ers to be a contender this year following a playoff appearance one year ago and then adding brand .
never before in nba history have coaches fallen this early in the season in such numbers .
now , maurice cheeks became the nba 's fifth coaching casualty of the season .
on saturday , cheeks was fired as head coach of the philadelphia 76ers .
with the off-season acquisition of elton brand , the 2008-09 season was supposed to be a good one for the sixers .
unfortunately , it has n't played out that way to date .
despite leading the team in scoring , brand has not yet lived up to expectations and the rest of the team also has struggled .
the sixers have a record of 9-14 and had been expected to be a playoff contender in the eastern conference .
according to the associated press , the dismissal came hours before the 76ers were to play at home saturday night , with dileo now making his coaching debut against washington .
dileo has spent 19 seasons with the 76ers .
he was promoted to senior vice president/assistant general manager in 2003 .
cheeks was one of more the popular players in 76ers history and was starting his fourth season as coach .
gm ed stefanski had given cheeks two contract extensions in the past season , but the slow start was enough to cost him his job .
philadelphia 76ers management had enough of the nba team lurking near the bottom of the eastern conference standings and fired head coach maurice cheeks on saturday .
assistant general manager tony dileo was named interim coach .
" decisions of this nature are never easy , and this was particularly difficult due to the great amount of respect i have for maurice cheeks , " team president and general manager ed stefanski said .
" however , at this time i felt that it is in the best interest of this team to make a change while there is still time to accomplish the goals we set forth for ourselves at the start of the season . " .
the 76ers dropped their third game in a row on friday , an 88-72 setback to cleveland , and occupy last place in the atlantic division with a 9-14 record .
cheeks would become the fifth nba coach fired this season , along with p.j. carlesimo ( oklahoma city ) , eddie jordan ( washington ) , sam mitchell ( toronto ) and randy wittman ( minnesota ) .
the former 76ers point guard for much of the 1980s came back to the city to assume coaching duties prior to the 2005 season .
last season he led the club to their first postseason berth in four years .
cheeks has an overall record of 284-286 , which includes nearly four years as coach of portland .
stefanski had given cheeks two contract extensions in the past season , but the slow start was enough to cost him his job .
the sixers have hardly resembled last season 's up-tempo group that advanced to the playoffs , despite the addition of free agent elton brand .
dileo has spent 19 seasons with the 76ers and was promoted to senior vice president and assistant general manager in 2003 .
prior to joining the organization he had amateur coaching experience .
philadelphia host the washington wizards on saturday .
the philadelphia 76ers fired coach maurice cheeks saturday morning after a disappointing 9-14 start to the 2008-09 season .
the sixers had a three-game losing streak going into saturday night 's contest against washington , and more had been expected from a team that signed free-agent forward elton brand to a five-year , $ 80 million contract in the off-season .
" i made the decision because i felt we were not progressing the way we wanted to progress , " said general manager ed stefanski at a news conference .
" i feel on the floor we were n't executing the philosophy that we want to have as sixers basketball . " .
stefanski said tony dileo , the team 's assistant general manager and senior vice president , will coach the team the rest of this season .
excluding brand 's 15.9 points and 10 rebounds , the team 's stars have not played up to past standards .
andre miller is averaging 15.5 points per game , andre iguodala 14.9 points , a drop of five points per game from last season , while samuel dalembert is down almost five points per game with his 5.8 points and just over two rebounds .
cheeks compiled a 162-139 record in three-plus seasons and coached the 76ers to 40 regular-season victories in 2007-08 before a six-game loss to detroit in the eastern conference quarterfinals .
he is the fifth nba head coach fired this season , joining oklahoma city 's p.j.carlesimo , washington 's eddie jordan , toronto 's sam mitchell and minnesota 's randy wittman .
maurice cheeks is out as philadelphia 76ers head coach .
general manager ed stefanski announced tony dileo , the team 's assistant general manager and senior vice president , will take over as the head coach for the remainder of the season .
stefanski fired cheeks with the sixers floundering at 9-14 and in the basement of the eastern conference 's atlantic division .
as recently as a season ago , when speaking about cheeks ' new contract extension , stefanski said , " we are excited about the future under this direction . " .
that changed dramatically on saturday .
" i made the decision because i felt we were not progressing the way we wanted to progress , " said stefanski .
" i feel on the floor we were n't executing the philosophy that we want to have as sixers basketball .
i told mo we needed to go in a different direction and make a change .
he was very gracious about it .
he 's a sixer and is rooting for us to turn this around . " .
this past offseason , the sixers bolstered their youthful , athletic roster with frontline cornerstone elton brand , who is leading the team in scoring ( 15.9 ) and rebounding ( 10.0 ) but is significantly short of his career scoring average and has already missed time this season due to injury .
the expectations were high for a team that won 40 games and took detroit to six games in the eastern conference quarterfinal round last season .
cheeks did not meet them .
friday night 's 88-72 loss in cleveland , the team 's eighth in 10 games , was apparently the last straw. cheeks is the fifth nba head coach to be fired this season .
" i believe in this team .
we are better than this , " said stefanski .
" we are going to make it better .
we will find a way to improve on this team. " .
the member of the sixers ' 1982-83 nba championship team started his head coaching career in portland , where he finished with a 162-139 mark and a pair of playoff appearances .
he guided a transition in philadelphia from the allen iverson era and won more games than expected last season behind a rising star , andre iguodala , a young frontcourt led by samuel dalembert and a veteran presence at point guard , andre miller .
miller is averaging 15.5 points per game this season , but iguodala is averaging just 14.9 points per contest , a drop of five points per game from last season .
dalembert is down almost five points per game ( 5.8 ppg ) and just over two rebounds ( 8.0 ) per contest .
dileo is in his 19th season with the sixers basketball operations department .
he spent four seasons as the team 's director of personnel ( 1999-2003 ) before being promoted to senior vp and assistant gm in september 2003 .
cheeks returns as sixers' fixer jim o'brien was shown the door after a single tumultuous season .
posted : may 24 , 2005 .
billy king spun the 76ers' head coach revolving door again yesterday , pushing out jim o'brien after just one season and bringing in maurice cheeks , the popular former sixers player and assistant coach , as o'brien's replacement .
nearly three weeks after the sixers ended their season , king decided to fire o'brien , who still has two years and $8 million left on the contract he signed when he was hired by the sixers on april 21 , 2004 .
cheeks , who was fired march 2 as head coach of the portland trail blazers , is the fourth head coach since king took over as the team's president and general manager on may 26 , 2003 .
that is the same date that larry brown resigned from the sixers after six seasons , the last time coaching stability existed with the team .
cheeks was a second - round draft choice of the 76ers in 1978 and played for 11 seasons with the team .
he was the point guard and floor leader of the sixers' 1983 nba title team .
at a news conference last night at the philadelphia college of osteopathic medicine , king said he had the support of ed snider , the chairman of comcast - spectacor , the team's owner , for his latest moves even though the sixers will be paying ex - coaches randy ayers ( $2 million ) and o'brien along with cheeks next season .
"in talking with ed , we felt the main focus was that we want to make the right decisions and not let money be the factor , " king said .
"we think we owe it to our fans and the city of philadelphia to do that . " .
cheeks , 48 , a four - time nba all - star while with the sixers , was fired from the blazers , his first head coaching job , in the middle of his fourth season .
he led the team to a 162 - 139 record .
two years ago , after brown resigned , king looked to cheeks to take over as brown's successor .
but the trail blazers rebuffed him three times , because cheeks was still under contract to them .
the sixers then hired ayers , who lasted 52 games before being replaced by chris ford .
king said he decided on saturday to fire o'brien , and then checked with cheeks to see if he'd be interested in the job .
cheeks said he would be , and king called him again yesterday and reached a deal after notifying o'brien of his decision .
terms of the deal were not disclosed .
when king hired o'brien , he had called him a "perfect fit" for the job .
o'brien did lead the sixers to a 43 - 39 record - a 10 - win improvement over the previous season - and a playoff berth and coached allen iverson to his fourth nba scoring title .
but in evaluating the season , king said he didn't think the sixers were heading in the right direction .
he had a problem with the team's style of play , which included reliance on the three - point basket and a defense that protected the paint but had trouble getting out on perimeter shooters .
there was also talk that o'brien was aloof and not communicative with his players .
he did not start samuel dalembert , a developing young center , until the season's 19th game , and he did not play willie green with iverson for much of the season's final four months because he felt that was a bad matchup defensively .
king said that in his postseason meetings with players , "not one of them said they wouldn't play for jim . . .
that they'd all come back ready to go and try to go further in the playoffs . " .
but other things bothered him .
king said he didn't want to make a snap decision when the season ended on may 3 , the day that the detroit pistons eliminated the sixers from the playoffs .
he talked to his management team , went on vacation for a week , then made his decision on saturday .
"in the interview process with jim , there were a lot of things that we talked about , " king said .
"but in watching the season , evaluating our young players' development and evaluating our style of play , it wasn't something i was comfortable with . " .
reached by telephone yesterday , o'brien declined to comment .
"i'm not going to have any discussion about this , " he said .
king said that when he broke the news yesterday to o'brien , "he asked why , and i told him that i just felt there were some things that took place that i don't think will change and we're going to make a change .
he said , 'thank you . ' " .
snider , who attended king's news conference , said he backed king .
"i really don't question billy at all , " he said .
"i know what went on in the process when he made this decision , as well as the decision to hire jim o'brien .
i've supported his moves , and i still do . " .
o'brien was excited to come back to philadelphia because of his roots in the city .
cheeks , who is expected to speak at a press conference today , is excited to be coming back to philadelphia because of all the success he enjoyed here as a player , followed by seven seasons as an assistant coach .
"mo is family , " king said .
"mo bleeds 76ers .
he bleeds philadelphia . " .
he is still the franchise's all - time leader in assists and steals .
cheeks also played with san antonio , new york , atlanta and new jersey before retiring in 1993 .
cheeks returned to the sixers in 1994 as an assistant coach and stayed for seven seasons until the trail blazers hired him as head coach on june 27 , 2001 .
under cheeks' guidance , the blazers made the playoffs in 2002 and 2003 , but did not get out of the first round .
they missed the postseason in 2004 , breaking a streak of 21 consecutive years in the playoffs , and were wracked by dissension .
"i look at mo cheeks and i know mo cheeks , " king said .
"if players have problems with mo cheeks , then there's got to be something wrong with those players . " .
under o'brien , the former head coach of the boston celtics , iverson moved from shooting guard to point guard and responded with an mvp - caliber season , winning his fourth nba scoring title .
but o'brien is gone now .
cheeks is in .
and king knows he's being held accountable .
"i look in the mirror every day , " king said .
"i'm not somebody that's above scrutiny , but i think i try to do the best i can and make the best decisions . " .
maurice cheeks was fired saturday as coach of the philadelphia 76ers , who are slumping at 9-14 a year after making the playoffs .
assistant general manager tony dileo was appointed coach for rest of the season .
the dismissal came hours before the 76ers were to play at home , with dileo making his coaching debut against washington .
team president ed stefanski said he met with cheeks , describing the former 76er star as a " gentleman throughout " and a " class act . " .
" i felt we were not progressing the way we had wanted to progress , " stefanski said .
" i did n't feel on the floor we were executing the philosophy we wanted to have as sixers basketball . " .
cheeks was one of more the popular players in 76ers history and was starting his fourth season as coach. stefanski had given cheeks two contract extensions in the past season , but the slow start was enough to cost him his job .
cheeks became the fifth nba coach fired this season following p.j. carlesimo ( oklahoma city ) , eddie jordan ( washington ) , sam mitchell ( toronto ) and randy wittman ( minnesota ) .
a message left on cheeks ' cell phone was not immediately returned .
dileo has spent 19 seasons with the 76ers .
he was promoted to senior vice president/assistant general manager in 2003 .
his son , t.j. dileo , is a guard for temple and he said after the owls ' 88-72 win over no. 8 tennessee that he was excited his father had a chance to coach .
" i think it 's unfortunate for mo , he 's a great coach , but my dad is ready to step in , " dileo said .
" this caught us by surprise .
we had no idea . " .
dileo said he had n't talked to his father yet , but noticed one missed call from him on his cell phone .
cheeks led the 76ers to the playoffs last year for the first time while he was coach .
philadelphia was one of the surprise teams in the east last season , and the 76ers anticipated a deep run in the playoffs this year .
they signed elton brand to a five-year deal worth nearly $ 80 million last summer , but they have struggled with him in the lineup and have lost eight of 10 .
last season , the 76ers lost in the first round to detroit .
after an 18-30 start , philadelphia won 18 of its next 23 games and wound up at 40-42 , the sixth seed in the eastern conference .
stefanski rewarded cheeks with two contract extensions in seven months that would have taken him to the end of next season .
instead , with the team on a three-game losing streak and last in the atlantic division , he did n't even last until the end of the calendar year .
cheeks also coached at portland .
he played 15 seasons in the nba , the first 11 with philadelphia , and retired in 1993 .
an outstanding defensive player , cheeks played in four all-star games and was a member of the 76ers ' championship team in 1982-83 .
his no. 10 jersey hangs in the rafters .
mo cheeks will take over as new coach .
updated : may 24 , 2005 , 3 : 23 pm et .
maurice cheeks is running the show again for the philadelphia 76ers .
in a surprising move nearly three weeks following the end of their season , the sixers fired jim o'brien on monday after one season as coach and replaced him with cheeks , one of the most popular players in franchise history .
"mo is family .
mo bleeds 76ers . he bleeds philadelphia , " team president billy king said .
cheeks will be introduced as philadelphia's 21st head coach at a tuesday news conference .
philadelphia is certainly banking on the former point guard to have a happier homecoming than o'brien , a philadelphia native who played for saint joseph's .
o'brien's stubbornness and seemingly unwavering belief in a system that didn't fit his players cost him his job despite a 43 - 39 record and a return to the playoffs .
"i just felt the direction we were going and the overall play wasn't where we wanted to go , " king said .
o'brien just finished the first year of a three - year deal that included an option and paid him about $4 million a year .
o'brien , though , was not very popular with his players - - most notably former all - star chris webber - - who often complained about their roles .
king said after the sixers were eliminated in the first round of the playoffs by detroit that he planned to bring o'brien back .
after meeting with his players and other members of management , king had a change of heart and decided over the weekend he had to make a change .
certainly , king knows a thing or two about making changes - - cheeks will be the fifth sixers coach in four years under his watch .
larry brown left for detroit following the 2002 - 03 season , and assistant randy ayers was promoted and fired 52 games into the 2003 - 04 season before he was replaced by chris ford .
"i knew this thing was coming , and it wasn't an easy thing for anybody , " brown said from miami before coaching the pistons in the eastern conference finals .
"knowing billy , it's not easy to let a coach go .
his relationship with randy was pretty strong .
i think it was hard for him to let chris go .
he was excited about having jimmy , but i don't think it ever gets easy . " .
cheeks was one of the most popular 76ers from 1978 - 89 and played on philadelphia's last championship team in 1983 .
he also spent seven seasons as an assistant coach for the 76ers , was part of the staff under brown when they went to the nba finals in 2001 and developed a strong bond with allen iverson .
cheeks was fired march 2 after nearly four seasons as coach of the trail blazers .
he had a 162 - 139 record in portland , the fourth - highest win total in blazers history .
cheeks guided the team to the playoffs his first two seasons , but the players hardly made cheeks' tenure easy - - on or off the court .
the team was nicknamed the "jail blazers" after several brushes with the law , many of them involving marijuana possession .
"if players have problems with mo cheeks . . . then there's got to be something wrong with those players , " king said .
but cheeks' return to the city where he was a four - time all - star shouldn't come as a surprise .
the trail blazers turned down philadelphia's request to speak to cheeks as a possible replacement for brown , but the former point guard always remained popular with philly fans and was at the top of the sixers' short list to take over for ford .
now , they'll get their wish .
"we do not want to change coaches [ again ] , " sixers chairman ed snider said .
"we've seen enough coaches . " .
the sixers will pay ayers , o'brien and cheeks next season .
"i don't think it's something we're very proud of , but i don't think it reflects poorly , " snider said .
o'brien is the son - in - law of hall of fame coach jack ramsay .
he led the sixers to a 10 - win improvement from a year ago and they returned to the playoffs , largely on the back of a healthy , happy iverson .
while o'brien avoided public spats with iverson , he did not have the full support of the rest of the team .
some of the younger players , like samuel dalembert and willie green , felt they did not develop like they should have under o'brien and were unsure about their roles .
"in looking at the development of some of them , yeah , i wasn't pleased , " king said .
the sixers also failed to really understand o'brien's defense , a sticking point even in the postseason .
"some of the criteria on our defense wasn't there , " king said .
cheeks , who once famously came to the rescue of a 13 - year - old girl who forgot the words to the national anthem before a playoff game , now hopes to bail out his former team and bring them another championship .
"mo has played this game here in philadelphia , won a championship here in philadelphia , understands players , understands defenses , understands the way i think we want to play , " king said .
philadelphia 76ers president and general manager ed stefanski announced that the team has relieved maurice cheeks of his head coaching responsibilities .
cheeks will be replaced on an interim basis by sixers senior vice president and assistant general manager tony dileo , who will remain in the position through the end of the 2008-09 season .
" decisions of this nature are never easy , and this was particularly difficult due to the great amount of respect i have for maurice cheeks , " stefanski said .
" however , at this time i felt that it is in the best interest of this team to make a change while there is still time to accomplish the goals we set forth for ourselves at the start of the season .
" tony dileo has a wealth of basketball knowledge and coaching experience - both in the nba and on the international level - and is familiar not only with our current group of players but the style of play we are striving to attain on a consistent basis . " .
dileo is in his 19th season with the sixers organization and was in his fifth as the team 's senior vice president and assistant general manager .
during his tenure with the sixers , dileo has been involved in every aspect of the team 's basketball operations .
in his role as senior vice president and assistant general manager , dileo was responsible for assisting stefanski with player procurement via his evaluation of amateur and professional talent while supervising the team 's draft efforts and overseeing the college and professional scouting systems .
prior to that , dileo spent four seasons as the sixers director of player personnel ( 1999-2003 ) and has served as an assistant coach under larry brown , jim lynam , fred carter , john lucas and doug moe .
dileo has extensive experience in international basketball as both a player and a coach .
he coached the former west german men 's and women 's teams from 1979-90 , winning nine national titles in that country 's top division , earning coach of the year honors in 1987 .
additionally , he was selected as the west german federation national coach from 1981-85 and during that time , wrote and published the european basketball handbook , a guide designed to acclimate american players overseas .
a star at cinnaminson ( n.j. ) high school , dileo went on to play at tennessee tech and lasalle university , where as a junior he was named first-team academic all-american and went on to graduate maxima cum laude from the lasalle school of business .
cheeks was named the 21st head coach in team history on may 23 , 2005 .
in just over three seasons at the helm for philadelphia , cheeks compiled a mark of 122-147 ( .454 ) .
last season , cheeks guided the sixers to the nba playoffs for the first time since the 2004-05 season , after starting the year with an 18-30 record .
the sixers went on to win 18 of their next 23 games , becoming just the sixth team in nba history to go over .500 after being at least 12 games below .500 at some point during the same season .
in 2006-07 , cheeks helped rally the sixers from a 5-19 start to make a push for the playoffs with a 35-47 record .
philadelphia increased their winning percentage to .519 in games played after january 1 , compared to a winning percentage of just .267 during the first two months of the year - the biggest improvement by any team in the league during that span .
the sixers also tied for the eighth best winning percentage after the all-star break ( 18-11 ; .621 ) .
in his first season as head coach of the sixers , cheeks guided the team to a 38-44 mark and fell just two wins shy of reaching the post-season .
on april 18 of that year , he earned the 200th win of his coaching career .
cheeks record as an nba head coach with both portland and philadelphia stands at 284-286 ( .498 ) .
philadelphia 76ers fired jim o'brien , coach . named maurice cheeks coach .
not because mo cheeks was long for the job with the philadelphia 76ers .
like all coaches not in the upper stratosphere of the coaching hierarchy -- your phil jacksons and gregg popoviches -- he was only as good as his last 10-game stretch , only as secure as how well his star was playing .
but the 76ers , while underachieving at 9-14 when cheeks was fired saturday morning , were not an embarassment when they went on the court , not a disjointed bunch that clearly was no longer listening to or playing for its coach .
this was n't p.j. carlesimo ( oklahoma city ) or eddie jordan ( washington ) , whose team 's putrid won-loss records sank any chance they had of survival .
this was n't sam mitchell ( toronto ) , whose differences of opinion with his general manager about his team 's personnel were too big to overcome .
this was n't randy wittman ( minnesota ) , whose fan base was staying away in droves as the paying public grew indifferent to the on-court product .
the timing of this move by team president and general manager ed stefanski was a head-scratcher .
" it 's not 100 percent on the coach , " a source with knowledge of the 76ers ' thinking said saturday afternoon .
" but at the same time , we did n't seem to have a plan . " .
stefanski named assistant general manager tony dileo coach for the rest of the season .
dileo has a good reputation as a coach , spending time over the last two decades on the sixers ' bench as an assistant and in europe as a head coach .
but unless circumstances change dramatically , jordan -- who became close with stefanski while both were in new jersey earlier this decade -- will be the odds-on favorite to get the job permanantly .
many league execs still think quite highly of jordan , and none of the players who matter in washington threw jordan under the bus after he was fired .
cheeks ' coaching moves have frequently been criticized over the years , both in philadelphia and in portland .
but he lost his job this time not only because of xs and os , but because so many of the 76ers ' players that blossomed under him last season , including center sam dalembert , forward andre iguodala and guard lou williams , struggled to get going this season .
and the moves cheeks made , like benching second-year forward thaddeus young and elevating guard willie green , have n't produced enough dividends .
" ed just was n't seeing any progress , " the source said , and stefanski expected more from a team that had signed free agent elton brand to an $ 82 million deal and re-signed core players iguodala and williams for $ 80 million and $ 25 million , respectively .
" we were n't progressing at the rate [ stefanski ] thought we should , and he thought it was time for a move , " the source said .
yet stefanski can not escape criticism , either .
bringing brand in was the signing coup of the nba offseason , to be sure .
but in doing that , stefanski changed the team 's footprint .
the sixers are still a very good transition team .
but when the game slows down , having to cater to brand leaves the lane clogged .
last season , iguodala , young and williams had driving room when philly ran its halfcourt sets , and dalembert showed occasional decent low-post play .
but now , brand is the man in the paint , forcing everyone else out on the perimeter .
left to fend for himself on the weakside , dalembert 's numbers have plummeted , and williams has just begun to play well .
brand is recovered from the achilles ' injury that kept him out of all but eight games last season with the clippers , but he 's been slowed by a bad hamstring , and his offensive numbers ( 15.9 points , a career-low .436 from the floor ) have been unspectactular .
no matter what the stats say , philly looks and plays slower this season .
and stefanski did n't get a big-time shooter who could stretch the court and take pressure off of brand inside .
veterans donyell marshall and kareem rush , signed later in the summer by philly , do n't strike much fear into opposing teams .
the result is philly 's 93.3 scoring average , 28th in the league ( only charlotte and oklahoma city have scored 100 points fewer times than philadelphia 's six ) , and .314 percentage behind the three-point line , 26th in the league .
" everybody zones them , " an eastern conference executive said saturday .
the sixers had just scored one of their more impressive victories eight days ago , rallying from a double-digit deficit in the second half to win on the road at detroit .
true , they had bad losses early to the bobcats and timberwolves , and lost a home-and-home to the cavaliers on wednesday and friday .
but last we checked , cleveland was 20-3 , owner of an 11-game win streak and the only remaining undefeated team at home this season .
the cavs are rolling , and losing to them is no embarassment .
another league source with knowledge of the team 's thinking said saturday that the cleveland losses played no role in cheeks 's firing .
cheeks received his second one-year contract extension in less than a year last september , taking him through the 2009-10 season .
while stefanski did n't hire cheeks ( that was former president billy king , whom stefanski replaced early last season ) , stefanski and cheeks had quickly established a solid , working relationship with one another .
cheeks quickly acquiesced last year when stefanski asked him to give more time to the team 's younger players , getting young and young vets rodney carney and williams bigger minutes .
the transition transformed the team , as the 76ers went on a 19-7 run last spring , turning opponents over and becoming deadly in transition .
they rode their hot streak into the playoffs , where they stretched detroit to six games before succumbing in the first round .
they were n't a finished product , though , and it was no secret that brand was stefanski 's target , just as he 'd been king 's ultimate target .
after a brief dalliance with atlanta free agent josh smith , so stefanski cleared as much cap room as possible , sending carney and center calvin booth to minnesota , and then struck , getting brand to spurn his former team , the clippers , as well as the warriors , for the sixers ' $ 80 million offer -- the " philly max , " as brand later called it .
after keeping iguodala and williams , all the heat was on cheeks .
saturday , he became the latest coach -- one-sixth of the league 's head men already gone in little more than five weeks -- to succumb to the pyre .
philadelphia 76ers fire coach jim o'brien , hire maurice cheeks .
may 23 , 2005 .
philadelphia 76ers president and general manager billy king announced today that jim o'brien has been relieved of his duties as head coach of the philadelphia 76ers .
no decision has been reached on o'brien's staff at this time .
o'brien was hired as the 20th coach of the 76ers on april 21 , 2004 and posted a record of 43 - 39 in 2004 - 05 .
overall , in five seasons as an nba head coach , o'brien recorded a mark of 182 - 158 ( . 535 ) , including a record of 139 - 119 ( . 539 ) with the boston celtics from 2000 - 04 .
o'brien has served on the coaching staffs at seven different universities , including head coaching positions at wheeling jesuit college ( 1982 - 87 ) and university of dayton ( 1989 - 94 ) .
he owns a 135 - 156 ( . 464 ) record at the collegiate level in 10 seasons as a head coach .
also today , philadelphia 76ers president and general manager billy king announced that maurice cheeks has been hired as the 21st head coach of the philadelphia 76ers .
cheeks arrives in philadelphia after three - plus seasons as head coach of the portland trail blazers .
he recorded a mark of 162 - 139 ( . 538 ) in portland , the fourth - highest win total in blazers history .
during his time in portland , the blazers reached the nba playoffs twice , and his 2002 - 03 squad tied for second in the pacific division with a 50 - 32 record .
he joined the blazers on june 27 , 2001 , after serving seven seasons as an assistant coach for the 76ers .
cheeks worked under head coaches john lucas ( 1994 - 96 ) , johnny davis ( 1996 - 97 ) , and larry brown ( 1997 - 2001 ) .
in 2000 - 01 under brown , cheeks helped guide the 76ers to a record of 56 - 26 ( . 683 ) and a spot in the nba finals .
cheeks , 48 , logged an impressive 15 - year nba career , spending 11 seasons in philadelphia .
the four - time all - star ( 1983 , '86 , '87 , '88 ) helped guide the 76ers to 10 playoff appearances , including a world championship in 1983 .
in 133 career playoff games , he averaged 14 . 4 points , 6 . 9 assists , and 3 . 4 rebounds while shooting 51 . 2 percent from the field .
cheeks is also a five - time nba all - defensive team honoree .
the native of chicago , ill . , he averaged 11 . 1 points , 6 . 7 assists and 2 . 1 steals in 1 , 101 career games while shooting 52 . 3 percent from the field and 79 . 3 percent from the charity stripe .
he retired in 1993 as the league's all - time leader in steals , and was fifth on the career assists list at that time .
currently , he ranks fourth in steals and eighth in assists all - time .
cheeks had his no . 10 76ers jersey retired on feb . 6 , 1995 .
the 1978 product of west texas state was a four - year starter and three - time team mvp in college .
he finished his collegiate career third on the buffalos' all - time scoring list , averaging 16 . 8 points per game .
cheeks was selected in the second round of the 1978 nba draft ( 36th overall pick ) by the 76ers .
maurice cheeks became the fifth nba head coach to be fired this season , after the philadelphia 76ers notified the former point guard of his dismissal saturday morning .
expected to contend for a division title after the addition of elton brand , the sixers ( 9-14 ) are instead last in the atlantic after losing eight of their last 10 games .
an 88-72 road loss to the cavaliers in cleveland friday was apparently the last straw , though the team has not enjoyed a winning season under cheeks in his previous three years at the helm .
they had been on the verge of a resurgence as december started , improving their record to 7-6 before hitting a slump to fall to dead last in the division .
assistant general manager tony dileo was appointed interim coach as the sixers get ready for a game against washington saturday night .
cheeks is 284-286 lifetime , including four years in portland .
tuesday , may 24 , 2005 .
up the coast . . . the philly sixers canned jim o'brien [ who had been under fire all season ] and quickly hired mo cheeks .
mo ran the sixers in the 1980s as their point guard .
he looks to be a perfect coach for allen iverson .
really , this move has been in the making for quite some time .
the sixers have bugged portland about talking to him about their head coaching job over the past 3 years .
after the blazers fired cheeks . . . it was only a matter of time before philly and cheeks hooked up again .
the sixers have disappointed this season , just 9-14 despite the inspired 2007-08 run ( which culminated in taking two of six against the pistons ) and the pick-up of dominant pivot elton brand over the summer .
if you do n't know by now : you disappoint in the nba , you get canned .
today , maurice cheeks became the fifth coach fired within the first quarter of the season .
at this point , the emotional roller coaster of the nba season seems much more telling to any particular coach 's fortunes than overall performance .
reggie theus , long in danger , pulled off a huge upset of the lakers on tuesday .
he 's expected to stay safe barring a basketball apocolypse ( or a bad loss to the knicks tonight ) .
marc iavaroni of memphis got a win at an opportune time this week .
sure , it was over the thunder ... but whatever .
( also , his owner is being cheap right now . ) .
cheeks had an opportunity to turn things around this week with a home-and-home against the cavaliers , a team many picked the sixers to eclipse this season .
the cavs won the set by a combined 24 points and have the league 's second-best record .
while fellow fired coaches eddie jordan and sam mitchell seem assured of another top job as soon as next year , cheeks surprisingly figures to land closer to the randy wittman/p.j. carlesimo pile .
many felt cheeks was the victim of a regime change and not his own failure in portland ; as such , he seemed like a safe pick for the philly job ( especially considering his history in the town ) .
but although there has been change in the sixers ' front office ( current gm ed stefanski did n't hire cheeks , in other words ) , this sacking is more tied to the team 's failure .
you fail 1.5 times in today 's nba , you might be done for a while. cheeks is smooth and well-liked , so he could get a gig soon enough .
but it seems more likely that he 'd get back on the bench as an assistant or move to a college program .
ncaa : improper gifts , assistance given to athletes .
updated : may 16 , 2005 , 6 : 03 pm et .
the ncaa notified ohio state on monday of nine alleged rules violations , including cash gifts , improper academic assistance and failure of the school and coaches to monitor the men's basketball program .
seven of the violations involved men's basketball , including a school booster allegedly giving cash and academic help to a former player .
the others involved a booster allegedly giving $500 to a football player , and an orthodontist providing free and discounted services to five women's basketball players .
ohio state previously said it was looking into many of the alleged violations , including a cash gift to a recruit from former basketball coach jim o'brien , who was fired after acknowledging the payment .
"the allegations set forth in this report are consistent with what we expected , " ohio state president karen holbrook said at a news conference .
the school must respond to the allegations by july 26 , and an infractions committee will hold a hearing before determining whether sanctions are warranted , ncaa spokesman erik christianson said .
ohio state's athletic department has faced a series of ncaa investigations of its high - profile sports since the football team won the national championship in 2002 .
in december , the school imposed a one - year postseason tournament ban on its men's basketball team after o'brien acknowledged he gave about $6 , 000 to recruit alex radojevic in 1999 .
o'brien , fired on june 8 , is seeking up to $6 million in a breach - of - contract suit against ohio state .
the ncaa report says o'brien allegedly gave radojevic the money through then - assistant coach paul biancardi .
o'brien and biancardi are accused of acting "contrary to principles of ethical conduct" by failing to report their involvement in ncaa rules violations , the report said .
"we deny that we engaged in any improper conduct under ncaa bylaws and legislation , " said biancardi's attorney , james zeszutek .
biancardi has cooperated fully with ncaa investigators and is barred by the ncaa from publicly discussing the allegations , zeszutek said .
a message seeking comment was left with o'brien's attorney .
former star running back maurice clarett and other former football players have alleged that athletes received money from boosters , got academic credit for work they didn't do and received no - show jobs at high salaries .
the only mention of the football program in the ncaa report is an allegation that $500 was given to a football player , whose name was withheld .
last season , quarterback troy smith was suspended from the alamo bowl for accepting money from a booster .
athletic director gene smith , who replaced andy geiger a month ago , said the allegations in the ncaa report were less serious than speculation indicated .
"what you see before you is what they found in football , " he said , adding he would be surprised if sanctions are imposed against the football team .
clarett was suspended for the 2003 season for lying to investigators during an ncaa probe of allegations that he received improper benefits from a family friend .
the eastern conference standings have claimed another coach , with philadelphia 76ers head man maurice cheeks joining the ever-growing list of coaches who are no longer employed .
the 2008-09 season was supposed to be a good one for the sixers , who claimed the summer 's top free agent prize in elton brand and then assured that their big three would be together long-term by re-signing anre iguodala .
unfortunately , it has n't played out that way to date .
currently sitting at 9-14 on the season , the only thing stopping philly from being complete buried in the standings is that so many eastern conference teams are struggling , as well .
despite their poor start and their current three-game losing streak - likely to end tonight as the team takes on the wizards - the sixers are still just two games in the loss column behind the eighth seed in the east .
cheeks marks the third eastern conference head coach to get fired this season , following in the footsteps of the toronto raptors ' sam mitchell and the washington wizards ' eddie jordan .
cheeks will be succeeded by assistant gm tony dileo .
monday , may 23 , 2005 .
fired in philly ! !
sixers' coach jim o'brien was fired today and taking over will be former portland trailblazers coach . . .
jim o'brien was terminated from his position as head men's basketball coach at ohio state university following the disclosure that he loaned a recruit's mother money .
o'brien sued , claiming he was terminated without cause , and both parties filed motions for summary judgment .
the court of claims denied the motions because there was a factual dispute concerning what constituted a material breach under the employment contract .
stephen a. smith has reported that the philadelphia 76ers have parted ways with coach maurice cheeks .
the 76ers have a record of 9-14 and had been expected to be a playoff team in the eastern conference .
with its acquisition of free agent elton brand the lineup seemed to be become more solid especially in the middle .
but brand has not found his rhythm in the offense and his numbers have been disappointing .
some have said that instead of being the missing piece , that not unlike the phoenix suns , the team has missed its run and gun offense from last season .
when philly landed a playoff spot near the bottom of the east 's pile this past spring and then surprised the pistons by taking the first two games from them in detroit before losing the next four straight , there were high hopes for .500 + season and an upgrade in the playoff seedings .
with brand 's arrival the hope turned into what fans thought was a reality .
never before in nba history have coaches fallen this early in the season in such numbers .
veteran players know all too well that the security their union has fought for has created an imbalance of power on teams that do n't have a proven winner in the coaching seat .
when a player is paid tens of millions of dollars by a franchise , he is in the driver 's seat and if it comes down to a contest between that player and a coach who has n't won a title or has n't won a title in a long while , it 's not hard to know who has to go .
do n't cry for cheeks on the financial front. he has a guaranteed contract through the end of the 2009-2010 season .
agent says sixers to sign dalembert to six - year deal .
july 25 , 2005 , 12 : 18 am et .
samuel dalembert agreed to a six year deal with the philadelphia 76ers on saturday , his agent marc cornstein , told espn . com .
cornstein refused to disclose the amount of the contract , but it's believed to be worth between $60 million to $70 million , based on previous negotiations .
the signing came just one day before dalembert was set to get on a plane and visit the atlanta hawks , who had the money under the cap to pay him a maximum five - year , $70 million offer .
of the three top big men on the market , dalembert was the center with the most upside .
he has great range and is athletic , with great shot blocking instincts .
he's shown he can be a volume rebounder and his offensive game is emerging .
he was very inconsistent at times this season , but in the playoffs against the detroit pistons , he played the part of a franchise center .
the sixers made a power move this offseason , firing head coach jim o'brien , who wasn't a dalembert fan , and replacing him with mo cheeks , who is .
philly let it be known that o'brien was fired , in part , because the sixers are committed to dalembert .
this is the third deal for the sixers this summer .
they also reached six - year deals with kyle korver for $25 million and with willie green for about $20 million .
gary ross in negotiations to direct  hunger games " sequel  catching fire " .
now that  the hunger games " is a monster hit lionsgate are getting ready for the sequel  catching fire " .
the three leads jennifer lawrence , josh hutcherson , and liam hemsworth are already signed on to appear in the sequel and , no doubt , the third film  mockingjay " as well .
the biggest player who doesn " t have a deal in place is director gary ross and the hollywood reporter and collider are reporting that he is in negotiations with lionsgate to return .
hit the jump for more details and how  catching fire " could face a huge delay .
allegedly , ross was paid $3 million to direct  the hunger games " plus five per cent on the back end .
with no deal in place for ross to direct future films in the series , he is in a good position to ask for more money .
there is no doubt that ross was instrumental in making  the hunger games " a huge success .
it was his direction that many critics applauded and brought the film down to earth , as opposed to the bloated spectacle it could have become in the wrong hands .
lionsgate can " t hide that they don " t have the money , but they have to spend it wisely to ensure the quality of the franchise continues and ross could get a good deal out of it .
of course , if ross wants too much money lionsgate could easily give him the flick and hire a new director similar to the  harry potter " and  twilight " films .
considering lionsgate recently absorbed summit and their executives ( masters of the  twilight " films ) into team lionsgate ; a change in director could be likely .
another tough challenge facing lionsgate with the production of  catching fire " is the possibility of delays due to the schedule of lawrence .
 catching fire " has a release date of 22 november 2013 with production starting later in the year .
lawrence is set to star in the sequel to  x - men : first class " that could go into production soon if fox decide to exercise lawrence " s option to do the sequel .
the  x - men : first class " sequel already has a director with matthew vaughn returning and fox might rush it into production to capitalise on lawrence " s star power .
'the hunger games' sequel is in negotiations .
04 / 04 / 2012 .
according to "the hollywood reporter" , director of "the hunger games" , gary ross is currently in the negotiation stages to direct the sequel to "the hunger games" .
in terms of figures , "the hunger games" has already brought in over $363 million .
apparently , "lionsgate" would like a a november 2013 release date for "the hunger games" sequel .
the main cast ; .
- jennifer lawrence .
- liam hemsworth .
- and josh hutcherson will all be returning for the sequel !
chris weitz is in negotiations to helm " new moon , " the sequel to summit entertainment 's vampire breakout " twilight . " .
weitz comes on board to helm the second installment in stephenie meyer 's four-book series after summit and " twilight " director catherine hardwicke failed to reach a deal on the new movie .
the weitz move prompted a carefully calibrated campaign of reassurance on the part of creators .
meyer penned a letter that sought to calm fans nervous about the midstream switch .
" i 'm sad that catherine is not continuing on with us for 'new moon , ' she wrote in a letter on her web site , but then noted that , with weitz .
" torches and pitchforks are n't going to be necessary . " .
the director " is excited by the story and eager to keep the movie as close to the book as possible , " she wrote .
" he is also aware of you , the fans , and wants to keep you all extremely happy .
it 's rare for the director of a successful first picture not to continue on with the sequel .
there have been conflicting reports about hardwicke 's departure , with some noting creative and other differences .
summit has said it was a matter of scheduling .
weitz has not helmed a girl-oriented project before but has been involved in movies that encompass elements featured in " twilight , " producing the teen-aimed coming-of-age tale " american pie " and directing the fantasy adventure " the golden compass . " .
still , the director was taking few chances .
" i promise to remain responsive to your hopes and fears , " he wrote in his own letter to fans saturday .
" i thank you for this opportunity and for your faith . " .
weitz said he had been " in a whirlwind romance " with the series over the past few days , and , in a particularly careful phrasing , said he is " very grateful to have received ( meyer 's ) permission to protect 'new moon ' in its translation from the page to the screen . " .
both weitz 's and meyer 's letters represent rare attempts to communicate with fans on issues often left mostly to the industry , and speak both to the intense insider interest of fans as well as the importance of that group to the franchise 's success .
summit a week ago had faced a public-relations challenge when some fan bulletin boards began to worry about hardwicke 's departure .
robert pattinson and kristen stewart will star in " moon , " while melissa rosenberg is writing the picture which , like the first , centers on the ordinary teenager bella and the vampire edward but adds jacob , a werewolf character who figured less prominently in the first film .
the budget for " moon " is expected to be slightly higher than the first in the franchise , with a release likely for late 2009 or early 2010 .
the hunger games director gary ross still in negotiations for the sequel .
published : 2012 - 04 - 04 11 : 47 : 35 .
during the promotional period for the hunger games everyone involved made sure to note how different the franchise was from twilight .
while it may have seemed like a silly thing to do given twilight's success , but the truth is that comparisons were making male audiences a bit shaky about the film , as that demographic didn't want to spend two and a half hours watching a tween romance ( and hunger games is definitely not that ) .
the film obviously wasn't hurt by this strategy , as it went on to shatter records and become the third highest grossing opening weekend title of all time .
but while the story of the hunger games may have no comparison to twilight , it turns out that action behind the scenes may duplicate it .
while the first movie was a huge success , thr is saying that director gary ross is still in negotiations to direct the sequel , catching fire .
the stars of the film - the ones that survived , anyway - are already contractually obligated to appear in the second movie , but things haven't been going to great on the filmmaker side .
the trade says that ross' negotiations with lionsgate the first time around weren't so hot either , an inside source calling it "a terrible experience , " as the studio doesn't usually pay "seasoned - filmmaker fees" to even seasoned filmmakers like ross . ?
because of the hunger games' big box office numbers , ross is expecting a raise for his work on the movie ( he was given $3 million upfront and 5% on the backend with his first deal ) but it's unclear if the studio will give it to him .
much like the twilight franchise , or even harry potter , it's entirely possible that lionsgate will choose not to pay ross and instead go with another filmmaker who is demanding less money .
a script has already been written for catching fire , from simon beaufoy , but ross has not yet had the chance to revise it .
the one big card that ross has in his back pocket is that the hunger games was better received than any of the twilight films , which could convince the brass to try and keep some consistency .
whether it will play in his favor is still an unknown at this point .
so what do you think ?
should ross be brought back for the next movie or should they go with someone else's vision ?
leave your thoughts , ideas and desires in the comments section below .
it 's official : chris weitz is taking over the director 's chair for the " twilight " sequel " new moon . " .
" twilight " author stephenie meyer confirmed the news on her official website saturday morning in a post designed to calm the rising anguish among fans who loved the first film adaptation .
after bidding a fond farewell to " twilight " director catherine hardwicke , meyer went on to praise weitz and to let fans know that " torches and pitchforks are not going to be necessary . " .
on the one hand , weitz has shown his skill at adapting popular modern novels for the screen -- " about a boy , " from the nick hornby novel , won weitz and co-scripters paul weitz and peter hedges an oscar nomination for best adapted screenplay .
on the other hand , weitz also directed last year 's " the golden compass , " which was an expensive mess that failed to capture the fan base of the book .
director gary ross still in negotiations for hunger games sequel , catching fire ; release date may be in jeopardy .
posted 1 year , 160 days ago [ downloaded on 2 october 2013 ] .
as i said many times in my review , gary ross  direction was the strongest element of the hunger games .
but for lionsgate , the movie " s ability to make a crazy amount of money was the strongest element of the hunger games .
now , thr is reporting that ross and the studio are locked in tense negotiations over his return to direct the sequel , catching fire .
lead actors jennifer lawrence , josh hutcherson , and liam hemsworth are already signed for catching fire ( and i imaging they " re also signed for the third installment , mockingjay ) , but ross doesn " t have a deal in place .
he was paid $3 million for co - writing and directing the film plus 5 percent on the back - end .
unsurprisingly , he would like a raise on the sequel .
hit the jump for more including why catching fire might not make its november 22 , 2013 release date .
according to thr , negotiations on the first film were tough because ross already had a successful , oscar - nominated movie to his name ( seabiscuit ) , but lionsgate had never paid a hefty filmmaker salary before ( hunger games was the highest - budgeted project in the studio " s history ) .
now that hunger games will undoubtedly be one of the highest - grossing films of the year , ross has some leverage , but current franchise trends aren " t moving in his favor .
other major franchises have shown no hesitation in constantly switching out directors .
after all , it " s the title that draws people into the theaters , not the filmmaker .
harry potter went through four directors as did twilight , and marvel has basically made it a policy never to rehire any of their directors .
the studio " s highest priority is making sure to keep the franchise flowing without delay , and prolonged negotiations with ross may cause a delay .
there " s also the added problem of ross taking time to revise simon beaufoy  s script for catching fire .
lionsgate is also facing an issue with the sequel " s scheduled november 22 , 2013 release date .
fox could stymie lionsgate " s plans by exercising lawrence " s option to do the sequel for x - men : first class .
sources tell thr that fox " s option would take priority over lionsgate " s .
lionsgate is aiming to get catching fire into production by the fall , but fox already has their director ready to go ( matthew vaughn is signed to return for first class 2 ) .
however , first class 2 doesn " t have a release date .
ross " does have a few counters against lionsgate .
first , he " s a known quantity and has established a relationship with the cast and crew .
he also delivered a critically well - received movie .
granted , the hunger games would have crushed at the box office no matter what , but the positive response indicates that he " s now in higher demand for other properties .
it " s an impressive boost for a director who hadn " t helmed a project since seabiscuit in 2003 .
despite the acrimony , a source tells thr that the two sides will eventually make a deal .
ultimately , it will be difficult , and yet everybody will do the sane thing , which is to work it out , " says one .
" everybody will end up unhappy in their own way .
it " s just the nature of the beast . " .
the alternative is to throw 24 directors into an arena and have them fight to the death .
and if you " re having trouble imagining other directors taking over the franchise , take a look at these fake posters for the hunger games .
summit entertainment announced today that filmmaker chris weitz has been hired to direct the second film in the studio 's twilight film franchise .
the film , new moon , is based on the second book in author stephenie meyer 's blockbuster book series .
the announcement was made by erik feig , summit 's president of production .
weitz , an academy award ( r ) -nominated writer , director and producer , has a proven track record working with a broad range of material dealing with youth- oriented characters , fantasy and action .
as such , he has the potential to bring alive in new moon the dimensions and depth that fans will demand in the next installment .
feig stated , " we love stephenie meyer 's fantastic twilight series .
thinking long and hard about how to turn new moon into the amazing movie we know it will be , and working with stephenie meyer to find the right candidate , we are thrilled to announce chris weitz as director of the film .
chris very much understands the world of new moon and has the skill set required to bring the book to glorious life as a movie .
we think he will be an excellent steward of stephenie meyer 's vision . " .
" i am honored to have been entrusted with shepherding new moon from the page to the screen , " said weitz .
" the extraordinary world that stephenie has created has millions of fans , and it will be my duty to protect on their behalf the characters , themes and story they love .
this is not a task to be taken lightly , and i will put every effort into realizing a beautiful film to stand alongside a beautiful book . " .
weitz previously penned about a boy , which led to an academy award nomination for best adapted screenplay in 2002 , and adapted and directed the golden compass ( 2007 ) , which was nominated for two academy awards and won the academy award for best visual effects .
additionally , weitz co-wrote the 1998 animated film antz and went on to produce the major box office success american pie and executive produced the film 's two theatrical sequels .
weitz also produced in good company starring dennis quaid and topher grace and executive produced american dreamz starring hugh grant , dennis quaid and mandy moore .
in new moon , bella swan ( kristen stewart ) is devastated by the abrupt departure of her vampire love , edward cullen ( robert pattinson ) but her spirit is rekindled by her growing friendship with the irresistible jacob black .
suddenly she finds herself drawn into the world of the werewolves , ancestral enemies of the vampires , and finds her loyalties tested .
production on new moon is scheduled to begin in the coming months and the studio is planning to release the film towards the end of 2009 or early 2010 .
feig will oversee new moon for the studio along with summit entertainment 's director of production gillian bohrer .
weitz is represented by wma and by alex kohner of morris , yorn , barnes and levine .
about the twilight film series .
the twilight film series stars robert pattinson and kristen stewart and tells the story of 17-year-old bella swan who moves to the small town of forks , washington to live with her father , and becomes drawn to edward cullen , a pale , mysterious classmate who seems determined to push her away .
but neither can deny the attraction that pulls them together ... even when edward confides that he and his family are vampires .
the action-packed , modern day vampire love story and blockbuster success the first film in the series entitled twilight was released in theatres on november 21st grossing $ 69.6 million domestically during its first weekend .
to date the film has grossed over $ 142 million domestically .
about summit entertainment llc .
summit entertainment is a worldwide theatrical motion picture development , financing , production and distribution studio .
the studio handles all aspects of marketing and distribution for both its own internally developed motion pictures as well as acquired pictures .
summit entertainment , llc also represents international sales for both its own slate and third party product .
summit entertainment , llc plans to release 10 to 12 films annually .
source summit entertainment .
gary ross in negotiations to direct 'the hunger games' sequel 'catching fire' .
april 4 , 2012 .
despite currently being the director behind the #1 movie in the world , the future of gary ross's involvement with the hunger games franchise remains uncertain .
the hollywood reporter says ross is in negotiations with lionsgate to return as director for the sequel , catching fire - - and the deal likely hinges on money .
thr says ross , a seasoned director , accepted a relatively low $3 million salary for directing ( and co - writing ) the hunger games , but is asking for a significant raise for catching fire .
despite thr's article , which paints negotiations as tense , ross has spoken very confidently about his involvement in catching fire - - even mentioning casting ideas and filming plans - - and it seems likely he will officially be signed on as director .
meanwhile , the film's main stars , including jennifer lawrence , josh hutcherson , and liam hemsworth , are all signed on for the rest of the movies in the series .
several additional new characters will need to be cast before catching fire can begin filming later this year , however .
chris weitz , who directed " the golden compass , " is negotiating to direct the cinematic sequel to " twilight , " industry sources say .
while summit entertainment will not confirm weitz is attached to the vampire series , the hollywood reporter said friday he is the current candidate to direct " new moon . " .
" moon , " like " twilight , " is based on the four-book series written by stephenie meyer .
the movies follow a romance between a vampire and a mortal woman .
" moon " will be adapted for the big screen by melissa rosenberg with robert pattinson and kristen bell in the lead roles .
" twilight " director catherine hardwicke was unable to reach a deal to direct the sequel and her departure has been the topic of various rumors .
the reporter said " moon , " which is expected to have a larger budget than its cinematic predecessor , has been tentatively tabbed with a late 2009 or early 2010 release date .
gary ross back in talks to direct 'the hunger games' sequel 'catching fire' .
april 9 , 2012 .
despite reports last week that said gary ross would definitely not be returning to direct the hunger games sequel , catching fire , it seems he will be back at the negotiating table with lionsgate this week .
the hollywood reporter says ross is set to meet with lionsgate officials on monday to resume negotiations .
according to thr , two major sticking points are salary ( ross apparently wants a raise ) and schedule , with the hunger games set to begin filming in august .
that's in part to accomodate jennifer lawrence's january start date for filming the x - men : first class sequel , a project that legally and contractually holds priority for the actress over catching fire .
lionsgate is also under pressure to meet a previously announced november 2013 release date for catching fire .
the majority of fans were outspoken last week in their disappointment that ross would not return for catching fire .
some launched the "gary ross is boss" campaign to show support , a petition has been circulating twitter , and it will be the top discussion subject on monday night's episode of the hg fireside chat podcast .
what do you think about ross returning ( or possibly not ) for catching fire ?
sound off in the comments below !
there 's a new dawn for twilight .
days after catherine hardwicke was ousted , despite having directed the vampire romance satisfactorily enough to pull in $ 140 million worth of business from fanggirls and average moviegoers alike , the golden compass director chris weitz is close to signing on for the blockbuster 's sequel .
following up on some recent deadline hollywood scoop , ew.com reports that weitz has been tapped by summit entertainment to helm new moon , based on the second book in stephenie meyer 's phenomenon-inducing franchise .
" he 's the quality-of-life-choice , " a source said , perhaps referring to buzz that hardwicke , while ultratalented , is rough to work with , while weitz , who also codirected american pie and scored an oscar nod for copenning about a boy , is known to be a pretty genial chap .
summit says that no deal has been signed yet , but the official announcement could be coming as soon as this weekend .
the studio wants new moon in theaters and edward-loving butts in the seats in 2010 , but has said it will not rush production before the script ( the initial draft of which hardwicke supposedly had problems with ) is the best it can be .
" this is not a rush job , " summit ceo rob friedman told the los angeles times ' big picture blog .
" the movie only gets released when it 's finished. i 'd like it to be next year , but we 're not going to put out a bad movie to hit a release date . " .
'hunger games' director gary ross in tough negotiation for sequel .
8 : 00 am pdt 4 / 4 / 2012 .
despite the movie's box - office records , the director isn't locked up as lionsgate could pull a "twilight" - style switcheroo over money .
now that the hunger games is a hit with more than $363 million in the till , the question is whether writer - director gary ross will return for the next installment in the lucrative lionsgate franchise .
unlike stars jennifer lawrence , josh hutcherson and liam hemsworth , ross is not signed for a sequel .
and negotiations for him to do the first movie were "a terrible experience , " says a source with knowledge of the discussions , because ross is a seasoned filmmaker ( pleasantville , seabiscuit ) and lionsgate isn't accustomed to paying seasoned - filmmaker fees .
he ended up taking a relatively low $3 million to write ( with billy ray and novelist suzanne collins ) and direct .
but he will collect a very remunerative 5 percent of backend .
sources say ross , 55 , would like a significant raise for a second hunger games , but lionsgate didn't kick off negotiations with him until about three weeks before the first film's march 23 opening .
by then , with tracking suggesting a huge opening weekend , ross and his caa reps were in no hurry to bargain .
lionsgate has a script from simon beaufoy ( slumdog millionaire ) that ross has yet to revise .
the studio is in a rush to start the next film in the fall , though fox might upset lionsgate's plan by exercising its option on lawrence to start another x - men movie first .
( fox's option would trump lionsgate's hold on lawrence , say sources . ) .
adding urgency : lionsgate already has booked a november 2013 release for hunger games : catching fire .
with other big literary properties , directors have been seen as fungible .
warner bros . entrusted the first two harry potter films to chris columbus before employing a host of other filmmakers , and summit memorably did not invite catherine hardwicke back to direct the second twilight , despite the success of the first installment .
( and summit's rob friedman and patrick wachsberger now run lionsgate's film division . ) .
but ross will argue that his film was much better received than any in the twilight series , with an a cinemascore and an 85 percent "fresh" rating on rotten tomatoes in addition to huge worldwide box office .
he'll contend that the movie will play longer and stronger in theaters and that he could direct his pick of other movies should lionsgate refuse to pony up .
( but to state the obvious , hunger games' bi - gender story line appeals to a wider audience than twilight . ) .
it's always striking when a giant hit leads to anger and hurt feelings in hollywood , but that seems to be the case here .
nonetheless , sources involved with the franchise are betting that ross will return .
"ultimately , it will be difficult , and yet everybody will do the sane thing , which is to work it out , " says one .
"everybody will end up unhappy in their own way .
it's just the nature of the beast . " .
rumored to be the front runner earlier in the week , entertainment weekly has now confirmed that chris weitz will direct the sequel to twilight , new moon , replacing catherine hardwicke .
hardwicke reportedly clashed with summit entertainment during twilight 's production and ew says weitz landed the new moon gig because he has a solid relationship with the studio , he 's considered easy to work with and has experience with special effects .
in new moon , the second novel in stephenie meyer 's young-adult series , bella ( kristen stewart ) recovers from the vampire attack that almost claimed her life .
she looks to celebrate her birthday with edward ( robert pattinson ) and his family , however , a minor accident during the festivities results in bella 's blood being shed , a sight that proves too intense for the cullens .
they decide to leave the town of forks , washington for bella and edward 's sake. melissa rosenberg is writing the screenplay .
weitz co-directed american pie , down to earth and about a boy with his brother paul .
last year he helmed the golden compass , based on the philip pullman novel , which did n't impress north american audiences but was a hit overseas .
new moon is tentatively scheduled to open november 20 , 2009 .
gary ross 'catching fire' negotiations reportedly continue .
posted : 04 / 9 / 2012 8 : 33 am updated : 04 / 9 / 2012 8 : 33 am .
gary ross has not departed "the hunger games . " .
according to thr , ross will resume negotiating with lionsgate about returning for the "games" sequel "catching fire" at some point on monday .
it has been quite a three days for ross .
on friday , indiewire's blog the playlist exclusively reported that the director had stepped away from negotiations with lionsgate , not because of any monetary strife , but because ross wanted to do something different for his next film .
that was countered by deadline . com's nikki finke and mike fleming , who wrote on saturday that ross hadn't stepped away , and that lionsgate wanted him to return but for a reasonable price .
ross was reportedly paid $3 million to write and direct "the hunger games . " .
he'll also earn five percent of the backend grosses , a significant number since "games" has already accumulated $459 million around the globe .
per thr , the negotiations between the two parties are "delicate , " but a deal could get done soon .
after all , "catching fire" begins shooting in august with a script from oscar winner simon beaufoy ( "slumdog millionaire" ) .
well " new moon " has a new director .
and it 's a man .
chris weitz will take on the sequel to " twilight " .
chris weitz the director of " the golden compass " and best known for his work with his brother paul on " american pie " is stepping up to do " new moon " .
weitz has a good relationship with summit studios and is easy to work with .
he also has experience with special effects .
of course though it 's not official yet. december 14th the announcement will be made for the hiring decision .
just in time to start the pre-production details for this highly anticipated sequel .
" twilight " has grossed more than 141 million already .
gary ross remains in negotiations to direct 'the hunger games' sequel .
wednesday , 04 april 2012 10 : 30 .
after opening to the third - biggest domestic debut weekend of all time , legitimate pop culture phenomenon the hunger games has grossed $368 . 0 million globally .
it's done so in under two weeks of theatrical release .
so with by far the biggest hit in its history , lionsgate is naturally keen to continue the series with catching fire , the already announced adaptation of suzanne collins's novel .
but apparently it's not a guarantee that gary ross , who co - wrote and directed the hunger games , will be back for another round .
lionsgate has long been open about its intent to turn collins's bestselling young adult novels into a franchise , one that would spin four movies out of the literary trilogy .
last year , the studio staked out a november 22 , 2013 release date for catching fire and pursued oscar winning slumdog millionaire screenwriter simon beaufoy to pen the script .
in january , word emerged that beaufoy was indeed at work on catching fire , and at the time , word was that he was doing so under ross's supervision , with the director set to return .
since then , it's been generally accepted that ross would take another trip to panem , particularly once the hunger games received an overwhelmingly positive critical response and , you know , made dump trucks of money .
ross has by no means been set to direct , however .
according to the hollywood reporter , he has yet to formally sign on , and negotiations might just be proceeding with some difficulty , if the process on the hunger games is any indicator .
the reports cites an anonymous source familiar with ross's negotiations last time , who cites it as , "a terrible experience . " .
lionsgate , unaccustomed to dealing with directors as established as the four time oscar nominee and pleasantville and seabiscuit director , reportedly played some hardball with ross , who ended up being paid $3 million .
that relatively low figure was no doubt helped by the 5% of the film's backend profits .
having delivered a critically acclaimed , zeitgeist - tapping event movie , ross is doubtless expecting a bigger figure for catching fire , but will lionsgate pay it ?
probably .
but maybe not .
lionsgate recently bought summit entertainment , the distributor behind the twilight franchise , meaning that the lionsgate film division is now under the auspices of summit's patrick wachsberger and rob friedman .
the revolving door of directors on the twilight series has some fans worried that a similar policy might be carried out with the hunger games sequels .
negotiations with ross didn't actually begin until roughly three weeks before the first film's release , at which point it was obvious that the film would be successful , giving no small amount of leverage to the director , who co - wrote the screenplay with collins and billy ray .
while ross wasn't signed on to multiple films , stars jennifer lawrence , josh hutcherson , and liam hemsworth are all on board for the duration of the series .
but that's not say there's no potential issues there either .
the unanimously - praised lawrence is also contractually obligated to reprise her role as mystique in a sequel to last year's x - men : first class .
her commitment there apparently supersedes her hunger games contract , meaning that if fox goes ahead with another x - men at an inconvenient moment , it could complicate the catching fire schedule .
of course , all of this could be conjecture or , at the very least , over - analysis .
let's not get hysterical just yet , folks .
the last five days have been a wild rollercoaster ride for " twilight " fans , as the film 's director was told her services would no longer be required for the sequels , fueling speculation over her replacement , followed by a rumor about a supposed successor .
now , it seems , a battle is going on between a studio saying there 's no news to report and an entertainment magazine claiming chris weitz is getting behind the " twilight " steering wheel .
" there will be a new director atop the 'twilight ' franchise : and he 'll be a man , " entertainment weekly 's " hollywood insider " is reporting .
" sources tell ew.com that summit entertainment is about to hire chris weitz ( 'the golden compass ' ) as the shepherd for 'new moon , ' the second installment of stephenie meyer 's best-selling 'twilight ' series . " .
although weitz was indeed offered the high-profile gig , the " american pie " filmmaker has spent much of the week contemplating his participation .
according to " twilight " studio summit entertainment , the deal remains unconsummated .
" no , it is not official , " a studio representative told mtv news on thursday evening ( december 11 ) .
" we are not confirming anything at this point .
he is not signed on as the director . " .
" we are not confirming , " echoed a second representative .
whether ew is hearing incorrectly from their sources or the studio is just biding time until it can make a proper announcement , this much seems certain : catherine hardwicke is moving on to future projects that will not involve teenage vampires , and a man is likely to take her place .
twilighters have spent much of the week arguing with each other - and attempting to form protests and letter-writing campaigns - while debating whether they should speak out against the changes to their beloved franchise .
whether they 'll warm to weitz is anyone 's guess , but at least the filmmaker can always take solace in the fact that the fanbase similarly rebelled against kristen stewart and robert pattinson when they originally signed up for the film that would make them superstars .
gary ross will not direct 'hunger games' sequel .
filmmaker says he cannot commit to production schedule for 'catching fire' .
hunger games director gary ross will not helm the adaptation of catching fire , the second book in suzanne collins' trilogy , the los angeles times reports .
according to the newspaper's sources , ross was in negotiations to direct the sequel , but was not able to come to an agreement over scheduling and compensation .
"despite recent speculation in the media , and after difficult but sincere consideration , i have decided not to direct catching fire , " ross said in a statement .
"as a writer and a director , i simply don't have the time i need to write and prep the movie i would have wanted to make because of the fixed and tight production schedule . " .
the director denied reports that his talks with the studio , lionsgate , hit a snag .
"contrary to what has been reported , negotiations with lionsgate have not been problematic .
they have also been very understanding of me through this difficult decision . " .
the second film in the hunger games trilogy is scheduled to hit theaters in november of 2013 , allowing the studio and creators a limited window to prepare before production would need to begin .
the golden compass director chris weitz is expected to direct new moon , the sequel to the hugely successful film twilight .
according to ew , " weitz is best-known for his work with his brother paul .
the two directed and produced american pie and then were nominated for an academy award for best screenplay for about a boy , which they also co-directed .
chris ' first solo directing gig , the golden compass , did n't do well stateside but was a hit internationally . " .
it was announced earlier this week that twilight director catherine hardwicke and the movie studio summit entertainment were parting ways .
gary ross won't direct hunger games sequel .
april 7th , 2012 12 : 30pm edt .
moviemaker gary ross has reportedly pulled out of negotiations to direct a sequel to the hunger games .
ross , who has wowed film fans and critics alike with his adaptation of the first book in author suzanne collins' trilogy , has officially decided not to return , according to the playlist .
speculation about his successor for catching fire has begun with the hunger games second - unit director steven soderbergh the early front - runner to take over the role .
wladimir klitschko defended his ibf heavyweight crown by stopping hasim rahman in the seventh round at sap arena on saturday .
klitschko , who has not lost in more than four years , hit the shorter rahman at will throughout , and after landing a left-right-left combination against the cornered american , the referee stepped in to end the contest. rahman did n't appear upset .
klitschko had knocked down rahman in the previous round with successive left hooks .
the technical knockout in klitchsko 's sixth defense of the ibf belt - and third this year - improved the ukrainian-born fighter to 52-3 with 46 kos .
rahman , the two-time heavyweight champion who stepped in as a replacement opponent last month , struggled to get inside the taller klitschko 's reach , and dropped to 45-7-2 .
the fighters started out fast and light on their feet , but it soon became apparent that rahman was struggling to overcome the 3 1/2-inch height advantage enjoyed by the champion .
rahman had to lean in drastically , and klitschko easily fended off his punches .
rahman did little more than lean on the ropes for a time and guard his face as klitschko sought his opening .
rahman looked reinvigorated in the fourth round , using his whole torso to make ambitious attacks , often connecting with klitschko 's body .
but he rarely landed blows above klitschko 's shoulders , and the consequences were clear when klitschko dropped rahman early in the sixth with two hard lefts to the side of his head .
rahman got up but spent the remainder of the round in the corner , taking a sustained beating .
another flurry at the opening of the seventh ended rahman 's challenge .
klitschko also retained the minor wbo and ibo belts .
klitschko was originally scheduled to face alexander povetkin ( 16-0 ) , but the russian pulled out with an ankle injury .
rahman , who won the wbc and ibf belts from lennox lewis in 2001 and the vacant wbc belt in 2005 , arrived in germany on monday and declared he was in top shape .
on the undercard , former heavyweight champion riddick bowe made a modest comeback with an eighth-round decision over germany 's gene pukall .
it was just the third fight in a decade for the 41-year-old american and his first in three years .
bowe ( 45-1 , 33 kos ) had been training in germany since september in an effort to get his stamina up and his weight down .
the work paid off in the ring , where he kept up with the 33-year-old pukall ( 14-13-2 , 12kos ) and bested him with a stream of careful head shots .
wladimir klitschko stops tony thompson in 6th round to retain world heavyweight titles .
wladimir klitschko stopped tony thompson in the sixth round to retain his wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belts saturday night .
the 36 - year - old champion klitschko , 58 - 3 with 51 knockouts , floored thompson with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american never recovered .
the ukrainian champion dropped thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam williams gave the challenger a standing count before stopping the fight .
in 2008 , klitschko stopped thompson in the 11th round .
thompson , who was the mandatory challenger nominated by the ibf , dropped to 36 - 3 .
mannheim , germany ( sports network ) - wladimir klitschko retained three heavyweight title belts by scoring a dominant seventh-round technical knockout of hasim rahman saturday night .
the 32-year-old klitschko ( 52-3 , 46 kos ) won his 10th consecutive bout by flooring rahman ( 45-7-2 ) once before referee tony weeks stopped the fight 44 seconds into the seventh round .
in a fight that was one-sided from the start , klitschko retained his ibf , wbo and ibo versions of the heavyweight crown .
klitschko , who was coming off an 11th-round knockout of tony thompson in july , landed 178 punches to just 30 for rahman .
klitschko used his jab to his advantage , scoring consistently , and by the sixth round the 36-year-old rahman , a former heavyweight champion , looked tired and clearly beaten .
in the sixth klitschko landed a pair of left hooks to floor an off-balanced rahman , who spent most of his time during the round on the ropes .
in fact , klitschko landed 28 of his 68 punches thrown during the round , while rahman connected on just 1-of-16 over those three minutes .
with rahman getting pounded in the corner early in the seventh , weeks called a halt to the fight .
klitschko 's ukrainian brother , vitali , is the current wbc heavyweight champion , but the siblings have ruled out fighting each other .
wladimir klitschko has held at least one major heavyweight belt since beating chris byrd for the ibf version in april 2006 .
on the undercard , former heavyweight champion riddick bowe ( 43-1 ) scored an eighth-round unanimous decision over gene pukall ( 14-13-2 ) .
the 41-year-old bowe was fighting for the first time since 2005 and stepped into the ring for a professional bout for only the third time since 1996 .
bowe is most remembered for his three fights with evander holyfield and two tough bouts with andrew golota .
wladimir klitschko stops tony thompson in 6th round to retain world heavyweight belts .
july 08 , 2012 .
wladimir klitschko stopped tony thompson in the sixth round to keep a comfortable hold on his wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight titles saturday night .
the 36 - year - old champion klitschko , 58 - 3 with 51 knockouts , floored thompson with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american never recovered .
the ukrainian champion dropped thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam williams gave the challenger a standing count before stopping the fight at 2 : 56 .
"thompson was not so easy to box .
i'm satisfied , " klitschko said .
in 2008 , klitschko stopped thompson in the 11th round .
wladimir klitschko ( 52-3 , 46 kos ) blasted a sluggish hasim rahman ( 45-7-2 , 36 kos ) in mannheim , germany on saturday night to retain the ibf , wbo and ibo world heavyweight titles .
after flooring rahman in the sixth round with a left-right combo klitschko wasted little time wrapping it up in the seventh with a big left-right-left series that led to the referee stepping in and stopping the fight at the 2:15 mark .
rahman , a former heavyweight champion who shocked the world when he floored lennox lewis in 2001 for the title , showed absolutely no signs of life against kiltschko on saturday .
the final numbers showed klitschko landing 178 of 369 punches thrown while rahman connected on just 30 of 207 punches thrown .
wladimir klitschko retains belts .
updated : july 7 , 2012 , 10 : 04 pm et .
wladimir klitschko stopped tony thompson in the sixth round to keep a comfortable hold on his wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight titles saturday night .
the 36 - year - old champion klitschko , 58 - 3 with 51 knockouts , floored thompson with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american never recovered .
the ukrainian champion dropped thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam williams gave the challenger a standing count before stopping the fight at 2 : 56 .
"thompson was not so easy to box .
i'm satisfied , " klitschko said .
in 2008 , klitschko stopped thompson in the 11th round .
thompson , the mandatory challenger nominated by the ibf , fell to 36 - 3 ( 24 kos ) .
after the fight , klitschko led the crowd of 22 , 000 in signing "happy birthday" to trainer emanuel steward , who turned 68 on saturday .
"tony thompson is very hard to hit , " steward said .
"tony was watching wladimir's right hand all night . " .
a cagey opening round was followed by a scrappy second , as klitschko twice wrestled thompson to the floor .
thompson briefly stepped up his cautious tactics when landing a left to klitschko's face in the third .
klitschko finally landed a long , straight right in the fifth , and the round ended with thompson struggling on the ropes .
the champion cornered thompson toward the end of the sixth , and landed punches to the head though no single blow appeared to cause serious damage .
"i got caught but i'm ok , " thompson said in the ring .
"he's strong and he's world heavyweight champion for a reason . " .
klitschko extended the domination of the heavyweight ranks he shares with his older brother , vitali .
vitali was in his brother's corner as usual , and acted as cheerleader in the third round , urging on fans in the soccer stadium when the first chants of "klitschko ! klistchko ! stirred .
the elder klitschko will defend his wbc title against manuel charr of germany in moscow on sept . 8 .
wladimir klitschko defended his ibf heavyweight crown with ease after stopping american hasim rahman after 44 seconds of the seventh round of their contest at the sap arena in germany .
wladimir klitschko retains titles stopping thompson in six rounds .
published : 22 : 07 gmt , 7 july 2012 .
updated : 22 : 07 gmt , 7 july 2012 .
wladimir klitschko stopped tony thompson in the sixth round to retain his wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belts on saturday .
klitschko put thompson on the canvas with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american never recovered .
the ukrainian champion dropped thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam williams gave the challenger a standing count before stopping the fight .
klitschko finished the fight five rounds sooner than when knocking out thompson in the 11th of their first title fight in 2008 .
the 36 - year - old champion klitschko improved to 58 - 3 ( 51 ko ) .
thompson , who was the mandatory challenger nominated by the ibf , fell to 36 - 3 ( 24 ko ) .
heavyweight champion , wladimir klitschko , 53-3 , 47 ko 's , easily dismantled former 2-time heavyweight champion , hasim rahman , 45-7-2 , 36 ko 's , in the seventh round .
rahman never gave himself a chance , standing on the outside and not ever getting any aggression going .
two things were very apparent in this fight .
one , rahman has nothing left , and two , wlad is as good as he 's ever been .
throw out the fact that " the rock " is n't what he once was .
nobody has ever dominated him this way , and really neutralized him from the start of the fight .
klitschko used his great jab and distance fighting to stay out of harm 's way and it 's hard to think of any heavyweight outside of david haye giving him any run for his money .
chris arreola has been named and hyped incredibly but would probably give an effort before being stopped in a round or two .
alexander povetkin might want to rethink his title shot because there does n't seem to be a way for him to overcome all of the advantages that the champion has .
the weak heavyweight division does n't seem to have much to offer the champion .
the two interesting fights that are out there for wlad are a showdown with wba champion , nikolay valuev or a bout with david haye .
former heavyweight champion , riddick bowe , 43-1 , 33 ko 's , returned to the ring with an eight round decision win over gene pukall , 14-13-2 , 12 ko 's .
in 2005 , bowe barely escaped with a decision over billy zumbrun and all the signs were there that he should never step into the ring again .
when he beat and reportedly stabbed his wife , bowe cited brain injury from boxing blows as the reason for his bad behavior , but now that brain damage has disappeared apparently and he is back in the ring and on the road to real injury should he face somebody that can fight a tad .
the only defeat on bowe 's record was a loss to evander holyfield in 1993 , but it can be argued that he was well on his way to losing both fights with andrew golota in 1996 before the " foul pole " got himself disqualified with frequent and impressive low blows .
it was the only time that i have ever seen a three punch combo downstairs and was probably the first for bowe .
it can even be argued that bowe lost to zumbrun .
the fact is that he should n't be in the ring at all but this is boxing and i 'm sure that the former champion needs the money and that is why he is risking his life .
wladimir klitschko stops tony thompson to retain world heavyweight titles .
posted : jul 07 , 2012 7 : 40 pm et .
last updated : jul 07 , 2012 8 : 44 pm et .
wladimir klitschko stopped tony thompson in the sixth round to keep a comfortable hold on his wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belts on saturday in bern , switzerland .
klitschko put thompson on the canvas with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american southpaw never recovered .
the ukrainian champion dropped thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam williams gave the challenger a standing count before stopping the fight at 2 : 56 .
"thompson was not so easy to box .
i'm satisfied , " said the 36 - year - old klitschko , who improved his record to 58 - 3 ( 51 ko ) .
klitschko finished the fight five rounds sooner than when knocking out thompson in the 11th of their first title fight in 2008 .
thompson , who was the mandatory challenger nominated by the ibf , fell to 36 - 3 ( 24 ko ) .
after the fight , klitschko led the 22 , 000 crowd in signing "happy birthday" to his trainer emanuel steward , whose was 68 on saturday .
"tony thompson is very hard to hit , " steward said .
"tony was watching wladimir's right hand all night . " .
a cagey opening round was followed by a scrappy second , as klitschko twice wrestled thompson to the floor .
thompson briefly stepped up his cautious tactics when landing a left to klitschko's face in the third .
klitschko finally landed a long , straight right in the fifth and the round ended with thompson struggling on the ropes .
the champion cornered thompson toward the end of the sixth , and landed punches to the head though no single blow appeared to cause serious damage .
"i got caught but i'm ok , " thompson said in the ring .
"he's strong and he's world heavyweight champion for a reason . " .
klitschko extended the domination of the heavyweight ranks he shares with his elder brother vitali .
vitali was in his brother's corner as usual , and acted as cheerleader in the third round , urging on fans in the football stadium when the first chants of "klitschko , klistchko" stirred .
the elder klitschko will defend his wbc title against manuel charr of germany in moscow on sept . 8 .
wladimir klitschko stopped tony thompson in the sixth round to keep a comfortable hold on his wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belts on saturday .
klitschko put thompson on the canvas with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american southpaw never recovered .
the ukrainian champion dropped thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam williams gave the challenger a standing count before stopping the fight at 2 : 56 .
wladimir klitschko retained his ibf , ibo and wbo heavyweight titles with a one-sided seventh-round stoppage of hasim rahman in mannheim , germany .
klitschko dominated from the outset against the former two-time champion , who chewed leather from the start and barely landed a blow on the ukrainian .
rahman , who took the fight at late notice after mandatory challenger alexander povetkin pulled out through injury , looked a shadow of the fighter that floored lennox lewis to win the title in 2001 .
the american looked clueless as klitschko continually pounded his face with a sharp left jab that had rahman back on his heels as early as the first session .
by the third round it was clear that rahman had nothing to offer and he could not even offload the big right hand that won him so many fights in the past .
klitschko had him on the canvas early in the sixth round with a double left hook and , as earlier in the fight , rahman merely retreated to the ropes to take more snappy shots , rarely throwing anything meaningful in return .
and it came to a merciful end in the seventh , referee tony weeks saving 'the rock ' from further punishment just moments after warning his corner he would do just that if the challenger failed to show more intent .
another clubbing left had rahman off balance in a neutral corner and with further blows reigning down weeks stepped in to wave it off .
the victory took klitschko 's record to 52-3 with a remarkable 46 wins by knockout , taking his unbeaten run to 10 since losing to lamon brewster in 2004 .
" hasim rahman really took some punishment and i have to pay tribute to him , " klitschko said .
" i was surprised he stayed in there longer than i thought and i thought they would pull him out . " .
klitschko vs thompson ii results : wladimir klitschko cruises again , wins in six .
on jul 7 2012 , 5 : 55p .
wladimir klitschko won his 16th straight fight today , successfully defending the wba , wbo , and ibf heavyweight titles against tony thompson , stopping the 40 - year - old american in the sixth round of a fight that was never really close .
klitschko ( 58 - 3 , 51 ko ) bombed thompson with a vicious right hand in the fifth round , putting him down late in the frame .
that thompson got up spoke a lot about his desire to try and win , but the fight essentially ended there .
he survived the round , but by the end of the sixth frame , appeared mentally beaten and looking for a way out .
he went down again in the corner late in the round , and this time referee sam williams stopped it at 2 : 56 .
klitschko had beaten thompson back in 2008 , mostly dominating that fight and knocking "the tiger" out in the 11th rounds .
this time , with thompson four years older and having had no significant tests in the four years that had passed since their first bout , it wasn't even as competitive as it was the first time .
thompson ( 36 - 3 , 24 ko ) just didn't have a shot in there , looked old , and though his awkward southpaw style gave klitschko some moments of slight discomfort , it would be a stretch to say that he troubled wladimir .
at this point with the klitschkos , as much as i admire their talent , skill , dedication to their craft , and the classy manner in which they carry themselves , i just feel like i've seen enough from them both .
we're running rerun bouts now .
is there really anyone out there you can look at and see as an actual threat to them ? is there anyone on the way up who has that skill set ?
i just don't see it , and i've grown tired of tuning in for passionless exhibitions of superiority .
i don't think they've killed the division , i just think they've dominated it , and with no actual hope for that earth - shaking upset on the horizon , i think i'd personally prefer to just see them both take farewell fights and head on out .
there's nothing more to see here .
the major heavyweight year ended much as it started , with wladimir klitschko owning the division against overmatched opposition , and with hasim rahman being nothing but a shell of the man that once shockingly knocked out lennox lewis .
klitschko dominated rahman over six-plus rounds , knocking him down in a horribly one-sided sixth round and then landing enough hard blows early in the seventh for referee tony weeks to step in and call an end to it .
that should just about do it for the 36-year old rahman , who has n't scored an impressive or notable win since 2005 .
since that win over monte barrett , rahman has gone 4-2-1 with a no-contest , beating nothing but club fighters , and often not even looking good doing that .
he 's had a long , strange career , and it looks like it 's over at the top tier .
he was so thoroughly overmatched tonight and unwilling to fight klitschko that he 's clearly got nothing left as a top fighter .
klitschko will move on and fight alexander povetkin , chris arreola or david haye sometime in march or april , i 'd wager , and he should be a heavy , heavy favorite against any of them .
arreola was hurt by travis walker , povetkin just does n't strike me as capable of being a truly top-notch guy , and haye was shaken by monte barrett a bit even though he did basically dominate .
i 'd love to see klitschko-haye simply because i think haye will make wlad work .
i said during the fight that this was yet another case of klitschko fighting up or down to his opponent .
haye would make him fight up .
rahman had him fighting down .
the fight as also yet another example of why people crap on heavyweight fighting .
it was n't interesting , was n't competitive , and you clearly had one guy ( rahman ) not in shape to fight for more than five rounds .
and worse than that , he did n't even fight .
in the sixth , he landed one punch .
he spent a lot of time laying on the ropes starting in the third round , barely punching at all .
the hbo team today was lampley , kellerman and lennox , and they did their usual bit when they watch a heavyweight fight with lennox in the booth , which means they made verbal love to lewis while lewis agreed with their assessment of him as better than everyone fighting today .
they 're right , of course -- but we all know that .
there was even one round where lennox decided , out loud , that he is better than wladimir klitschko .
as always , an interesting group that teaches me a lot about the fights i 'm watching .
klitschko stops thompson in regulation win .
july 7 , 2012 .
wladimir klitschko retained his ibf , wbo , wba &amp; ibo heavyweight world titles with a second professional victory over tony thompson on saturday .
klitschko , 36 , stopped the 40 - year - old thompson with two seconds remaining of the sixth round in switzerland to retain his collection of titles .
in 2008 , last time the pair met , the bout went 11 rounds before the ukrainian emerged triumphant .
klitschko dumped thompson onto the canvas with a booming right end towards the end of the fifth round of the fight in bern , and from then on it was simply a matter of time before referee sam williams stopped matters .
the decisive moment came at the end of the next three - minute stretch , the same punch again bringing thompson to his knees and - despite beating the count - he was clearly too unsteady to continue .
klitschko , who could face tyson fury in the near future after being called out by the british - irish fighter , improves to a career record of 58 wins and three defeats .
wladimir klitschko easily set aside the challenge of substitute hasim rahman , stopping the former heavyweight champion in seven rounds on saturday in mannheim , germany .
klitschko ( 52-3 , 46 knockouts ) retained his international boxing federation title for the fifth time in the process .
the six-foot-five ukrainian-born champ was never threatened in the bout , controlling the distance with his jab and introducing some heavy right hands beginning late in the second round .
rahman , 36 , soon grew more intent on survival than winning and fell from three consecutive left hooks in the sixth .
referee tony weeks elected to stop the bout early in the seventh when the american was offering no reply to klitschko 's thudding blows .
rahman ( 45-7-2 , 36 kos ) fell into the title shot five weeks ago when unbeaten russian alexander povetkin suffered an ankle injury in training and could n't face klitschko .
the baltimore , md. , native held portions of heavyweight title on two previous occasions , but has n't beaten an elite opponent in several years .
he was undisputed champ for six months in 2001 after stunning lennox lewis by knockout in south africa .
lewis avenged the defeat later in that year with a one-punch knockout of his own .
rahman would go on to win the vacant world boxing council in 2005 over monte barrett but lost it just over a year later to oleg maskaev .
the win over rahman was the 32-year-old klitschko 's third of the year , following up a decision over sultan ibragimov and an 11th-round stoppage of tony thompson .
his older brother , vitali , now holds the wbc title .
article posted on 08 . 07 . 2012 .
wladimir klitschko stops tony thompson in 6 with efficient execution .
heavyweight champion wladimir klitschko once again displayed his dominance by scoring a sixth round stoppage against american contender tony thompson .
klitschko utilized good ring smarts and superior punching power to systematically break thompson down .
the first round started cautiously with both fighters becoming reacquainted with each other in a tentative feeling out process .
tony was exhibiting his trademark awkward movement and wladimir was measuring him with the left rangefinder .
it was a relatively even round without much action , but klitschko landed the two best shots of the round even if tony threw a little more .
thompson tried jumping on wladimir to start the second but the champion was prepared .
klitschko followed this with a nice right hand followed by a short crisp combination .
later in the round another klitschko right snuck in , and then a series of big rights backed the challenger into the ropes .
thompson was wrestled down to the canvas a couple of times in this stanza , and wlad " s superior strength was evident .
klitschko was patient and measured , and his approach was paying off in round two .
in between rounds hall of fame trainer emanuel steward told klitschko he was mentally wearing thompson down with pressure , and this certainly appeared to be the case .
in round three klitschko was again using his left hand to block jabs and establish range .
klitschko was looking almost exclusively for right hands , and was not using the authoritative jab we are accustomed to seeing because of thompson " s awkwardness .
thompson was throwing jabs that were mostly being blocked or missing the mark .
while it was obvious thompson was having success in neutralizing wlad's jab , he was also being peppered with klitschko right hands that were inflicting far more damage than anything thompson was throwing .
wladimir finally landed a solid jab almost halfway through the round , but his right hand was still the story of the fight .
thompson landed a decent left later in the round , but klitschko was too elusive for him for the most part .
it was another clear round for the champion .
the fourth round was more of the same .
the action was highlighted by a thudding right and a well timed combination from the champion .
before the start of the fifth , steward urged wladimir to throw more jabs and to spend less time waiting in between attacks .
as has been the case many times in the past , klitschko responded to steward " s instructions and executed with workmanlike precision .
he started landing the jab more , and this enabled him to score with a booming right hand that sent thompson crashing to the canvas .
tony rose to his feet and the action resumed with about 20 seconds left .
the challenger held on to survive , but this was perhaps the beginning of the end .
thompson came out to start the sixth and seemed to have regained his equilibrium .
he was bouncing around , reacting to klitschko " s feints , and mostly retreating in a defensive posture .
as the round progressed he was trying to fling the jab out , but klitschko was slowly measuring him up , cool as an assassin .
klitschko began throwing the infrequent jab and landing more big rights .
thompson was trying his best to survive , but then a vicious two - handed assault sent thompson down for the second time .
to his credit , he managed to rise to his feet , but the referee then waved it off .
this was klitschko " s second victory over thompson , and with it he improves to 58 - 3 with 51 wins coming by way of knockout .
slowly but surely , wladimir klitschko is beginning to establish a strong legacy for himself .
he may not always have the most crowd pleasing style , but he is intelligent , powerful , consistent , and extremely efficient at executing his game plan .
the epix broadcast of the match made note of the following all - time heavyweight records in title fights .
heavyweight title fights .
joe louis 26 - 1 .
muhammad ali 22 - 3 .
larry holmes 21 - 5 .
wladimir klitschko 19 - 2 .
lennox lewis 15 - 2 - 1 .
now of course this includes klitschko " s title reign as wbo champion as well as his current reign which began when he captured the ibf strap from chris byrd .
many critics will note that the wbo was not universally recognized in high regard at the time klitschko held that title .
even still , however , klitschko has won 16 fights in a row since losing to lamon brewster in april 2004 , and he was won 13 title fights in a row since his april 2006 victory over byrd .
beyond that , he has rarely lost a round during that impressive stretch .
given the current state of the heavyweight landscape , it is not inconceivable that klitschko may well top that list before all is said and done .
wladimir klitschko stopped hasim rahman in the seventh round to retain his ibf , ibo and wbo heavyweight titles at the sap-arena in mannheim , germany .
rahman , who famously beat lennox lewis to become heavyweight champion of the world in 2001 , barely landed a punch as the ukrainian dominated the encounter from start to finish .
klitschko 's left jab caused problems for rahman from the start and the american had to resort to holding the kiev fighter to stem the tide of punches coming his way in the early rounds .
rahman started to look in trouble in the third when he spent most of the round on the ropes as klitschko landed several solid jabs on the american 's chin .
klitschko followed up a bruising fourth round with a series of jabs in the fifth that kept his opponent on the ropes .
klitschko put his opponent on the canvas in the sixth with a flurry of left hooks .
rahman got up after a seven count but spent the rest of the round on the ropes and only the bell saved him .
the champion finished the job 44 seconds into the seventh round when he followed up a left jab with a hook over the top to put rahman in the corner before referee tony weeks stepped in to stop the fight .
wladimir klitschko defeats tony thompson in six rounds .
7 july 2012 .
last updated at 22 : 46 gmt .
wladimir klitschko retained his wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belts by stopping american challenger tony thompson in the sixth round .
the ukrainian world champion extended his unbeaten run to eight years by overcoming 40 - year - old thompson in berne , switzerland on saturday .
thompson never recovered from a big right hand from klitschko near the end of the fifth round .
and the contest was over when thompson hit the canvas again in the sixth .
it was 36 - year - old klitschko's 58th victory , 51 by ko , for only three defeats - and his 16th in a row .
wladimir and his older brother vitali have dominated the heavyweight division for so many years that they are now revisiting fighters from the past .
thompson last met wladimir klitschko in 2008 , when the american's challenge was ended in the 11th round .
wladimir klitschko defended his wbo and ibf heavyweight titles in germany today with a lopsided victory over the american hasim rahman , winning by tko in the seventh round .
klitschko dominated the early rounds , repeatedly landing hard jabs that rahman just could n't answer .
in the third round klitschko so thoroughly dominated that i scored it a 10-8 round even though rahman never went down .
klitschko eventually wore rahman down enough to knock him to the canvas in the sixth round -- a round in which rahman did n't land a clean punch at all .
early in the seventh , klitschko staggered rahman , and the ref mercifully stopped it .
klitschko and his brother vitali are generally recognized as the two best heavyweights in the world , and although they 'll never fight each other , i hope they 'll start fighting better opposition than rahman , who is well past his prime and appeared to be out of shape .
mismatches like this one do n't do much to advance heavyweight boxing .
klitschko improved his record to 52-3 and is now on a 10-fight winning streak .
rahman fell to 45-7-2 and is now 10-5-2 with one no contest since knocking out lennox lewis in 2001 .
wladimir klitschko retains world heavyweight belts .
jul . 7 5 : 59 pm edt .
wladimir klitschko stopped tony thompson in the sixth round to retain his wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belts saturday night .
the 36 - year - old champion klitschko , 58 - 3 with 51 knockouts , floored thompson with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american never recovered .
the ukrainian champion dropped thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam williams gave the challenger a standing count before stopping the fight .
in 2008 , klitschko stopped thompson in the 11th round .
thompson , who was the mandatory challenger nominated by the ibf , dropped to 36 - 3 .
breaking news - 3 dead due to molotov cocktail at bank .
according to international media and greek sky tv .
three people have died in a blaze that broke out at marfin egnatia bank , on stadiou street , downtown athens .
the fire started when demonstrators hurled molotov cocktail fire bombs at the bank .
sky - tv reports that the 3 bank employees were burnt to death .
they were trapped in the stairwell of the 3rd floors while trying to flee the fire broken out two floors below .
four people - one with broken bones , 3 with inspiratory problems - are treated in nearby hospitals .
reports have it that angry demonstrators threw stones to the fire brigade coming in .
there are reports about fire at finance ministry - depts , burnt cars &amp; shops , smashed windows .
the van of turkish ntv private channel was also set on fire .
clashes between demonstrators and plice are continueing .
so far no information about injured peple or arrests .
information flow is hindered today since greek media are also taking part to the general strike .
tens of thousands angry greeks demonstrate in athens protesting the harsh austerity measures and severe cuts on salaries and pensions as well price increases in electricity and extra taxes .
the slogans are against the politicians , the police and the journalists .
people demand "give the stolen money back" .
people demand property confiscation of corrupt politicians and that those respomsible for the economic crisis should go to jail .
the greek government announced sunday drastic public spending cuts in order to get bailout loans of 110 b . euro from eu &amp; imf .
greek austerity : british views .
greece's parliament is due to vote on the hefty cuts and reforms proposed by the government to address the country's financial crisis .
it comes a day after three bank workers died in a petrol bomb attack as demonstrations over the planned austerity measures turned violent .
a bomb explosion at a bank killed a police officer and a state bomb disposal technician , and state police did not have any suspects , officials said saturday .
" that person is dangerous and needs to be found as soon as possible , " said lt. gregg hastings of the oregon state police .
the explosion occurred friday afternoon at a west coast bank branch in woodburn , about 30 miles south of portland .
the police went to check on a telephoned bomb threat received by a wells fargo bank branch in the center of town and found a suspicious device that turned out to be harmless .
but the police said the investigation led them to the nearby west coast office where the bomb was found .
the police would not discuss a possible motive for the bombing .
lieutenant hastings said he did not know of any grudges against the west coast bank , a statement echoed by its president and chief executive , robert sznewajs .
" we 're not aware of anything , " mr. sznewajs said .
police capt. tom tennant and senior trooper william hakim , both 51 , died at the scene. captain tennant was a 28-year veteran of the woodburn police department , and trooper hakim , a bomb technician , had been with the force for 11 years .
woodburn 's police chief , scott russell , 46 , was injured .
chief russell , who has been with the police department for two decades , was in critical condition but stable at a portland hospital .
state police said the inside of the bank was extensively damaged , and a female employee was treated at a hospital and released. another bank employee was uninjured .
lieutenant hastings declined to describe the bomb in detail but indicated it was powerful .
a bank employee found the bomb in bushes outside , and it exploded after officers took it inside .
lieutenant hastings said he did not know why the officers took the bomb inside .
federal authorities said saturday that they were offering a $ 35,000 reward for information leading to an arrest and conviction in the case .
three killed as rioters bomb greek bank .
may 5 , 2010 .
a firebomb attack on a bank in greece killed at least three people today as police fought pitched battles with striking protesters furious at brutal budget cuts designed to avoid national bankruptcy .
hooded youths hurled petrol bombs at stores and businesses in the centre of the capital , athens , and demonstrators tried to storm parliament during the general strike , as the rioting spread to the northern city of thessaloniki .
police said two women and one man died at a branch of the marfin bank which caught fire after hooded youths broke a window and hurled petrol bombs inside .
around 20 more people had to be ushered to safety .
at least two other buildings , one used by tax officials , caught fire in other firebomb attacks on the margins of the protests .
athens underground stations were shut and the international airport deserted as tens of thousands of union members rallied on the eve of a vote in parliament on the planned cuts and tax rises .
the general strike was the first major test of the socialist government's resolve to push through unprecedented measures since agreeing an ? 110 billion ( dh472 . 72bn ) debt bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund at the weekend .
prime minister george papandreou's insistence that the measures are vital for the nation's survival failed to dissuade unions from paralysing public transport and preventing ferries from leaving docks .
after rallying in two separate demonstrations in central athens , members of the main unions began converging on parliament , where the government was preparing for the measures to be voted on thursday .
"they're taking everything from me , i don't know how i'm going to get by , " said 61 - year - old anargyros bizianis , a municipal worker in the athens suburb of piraeus who earns ? 900 ( dh4 , 275 ) a month .
as the protesters tried to break through a police line in front of parliament , they first hurled stones and bottles of water , prompting the riot squad officers to fire back with tear gas .
full - scale clashes soon then erupted outside the building , with riot police trying to disperse the crowds with baton - charges .
during the unrest , one protester threw a petrol bomb .
youths also went on the rampage in other parts of the capital , with several dozen youths hurling petrol bombs at stores and banks , and smashing shop windows and bus shelters with iron bars .
athens police chiefs mobilised all their forces , including those not on active duty , by declaring a general state of alert .
the protesters in thessaloniki targeted stores and banks in the city centre before they were dispersed by anti - riot police .
a group of about 200 communists had stormed the athens acropolis yesterday , unfurling banners reading "peoples of europe , rise up . " .
the head of the million - member strong gsee private sector union , giannis panagopoulos , said : "the greek people have been called to make sacrifices while the rich pay nothing . " .
a government official downplayed the unrest saying that "for years there's been strikes and protests in this country without much consequence . " .
but markets reacted to the violence with alarm as greek stocks plunged 5 . 4 per cent .
the government , pushed to the brink of default , agreed at the weekend to slash spending and jack up taxes in return for ? 110bn in loans over three years from eurozone countries and the international monetary fund .
among the major measures , the government is to cut 13th and 14th month bonus pay for civil servants and retirees ; require three years more for pension contributions ; and raise the retirement age for women to 65 , the same level as men .
after months of hesitation , eurozone countries and the imf agreed to lend greece billions of euros at below market rates after concerns that the athens government's debt crisis could trigger a knock - on effect elsewhere .
the german chancellor , angela merkel , fighting accusations of holding up the bailout , said today that the greek crisis underlined the need for an overhaul of the eu's fiscal rules .
"the future of europe and the future of germany within europe is at stake , " she told a debate on berlin's decision to lend ? 22 . 4bn to greece .
an explosion at a bank killed a police officer and a state bomb disposal technician , officials said saturday , offering a $ 35,000 reward for information leading to an arrest and conviction in the case .
" that person is dangerous and needs to be found as soon as possible , " said oregon state police lt. gregg hastings .
the explosion occurred friday afternoon at a west coast bank branch office in the agricultural town of woodburn .
police went to check on a telephoned bomb treat received by a nearby wells fargo branch bank and found a suspicious device , but that device turned out to be harmless .
but police said the investigation led them to the nearby west coast office where the bomb was found by a bank employee in the bushes outside the building , and it exploded after officers took it inside .
hastings did not know why the officers took it inside .
police capt. tom tennant and state senior trooper william hakim , both 51 , died at the scene .
police chief scott russell , 46 , was injured and was in stable but critical condition .
the inside of the bank suffered extensive damage , and a female employee was treated at a hospital and released , police said .
another bank employee was uninjured .
police had no motive for the bombing and could offer no details about the bomb other than to say it was as powerful .
deadly fire - bomb hits bank during greek riots .
first posted 23 : 37 : 00 05 / 05 / 2010 .
a fire - bomb attack on a bank in greece killed at least three people wednesday as police fought pitched battles with striking protestors furious at brutal budget cuts designed to avert national bankruptcy .
hooded youths hurled petrol bombs at stores and businesses in the center of the capital athens and demonstrators tried to storm parliament during the general strike , as the rioting spread to the northern city of thessaloniki .
police said two women and one man died at a branch of the marfin bank which caught fire after rioters broke a window and threw molotov cocktails inside .
around 20 more people had to be ushered to safety .
"nobody has the right to violence and particularly violence that leads to murder , " prime minister george papandreou told parliament as he condemned "a raw murderous act" .
at least two other buildings , one used by tax officials , caught fire in other fire - bomb attacks on the margins of the protests .
athens underground stations were shuttered and the international airport deserted as tens of thousands of union members rallied on the eve of a vote in parliament on the planned cuts and tax hikes .
the general strike was the first major test of the socialist government's resolve to push through unprecedented measures since agreeing a ? 110 - billion ( $143 - billion ) eu and imf debt bailout at the weekend .
papandreou's insistence that the measures are vital for the nation's survival failed to dissuade unions from paralyzing public services .
after rallying in two separate demonstrations in central athens , unionists marched on parliament where a vote on the measures will be held thursday .
"they're taking everything from me , i don't know how i'm going to get by , " said 61 - year - old anargyros bizianis , a municipal worker in the athens suburb of piraeus who earns ? 900 a month .
as the protestors tried to break through a police line in front of parliament , they first hurled stones and bottles of water , prompting officers to respond with tear gas .
full - scale clashes then erupted , with riot police trying to disperse the crowds with baton - charges .
during the unrest , one protestor threw a petrol bomb .
youths also went on the rampage in other parts of the capital , with several dozen youths hurling petrol bombs at stores , smashing shop windows and bus shelters with iron bars .
athens police chiefs mobilized all their forces , including those not on active duty , by declaring a general state of alert .
the protestors in thessaloniki targeted stores and banks in the city center before they were dispersed by the anti - riot police .
a group of about 200 communists had stormed the athens acropolis on tuesday , unfurling banners reading "peoples of europe , rise up . " .
"the greek people have been called to make sacrifices while the rich pay nothing , " said giannis panagopoulos , head of the gsee private sector union .
a government official downplayed the unrest saying that "for years there's been strikes and protests in this country without much consequence . " .
but markets reacted with alarm as greek stocks closed down 3 . 9 percent .
pushed to the brink of default , the government agreed at the weekend to slash spending and jack up taxes in return for 110 billion euros in loans over three years from eurozone countries and the international monetary fund .
among the major measures , the government is to cut 13th and 14th month bonus pay for civil servants and retirees ; require three years more for pension contributions ; and raise the retirement age for women to 65 .
after months of hesitation , eurozone countries and the imf agreed to lend greece billions at below market rates after concerns the athens crisis could trigger a knock - on effect elsewhere .
fighting accusations of holding up the bailout , german chancellor angela merkel said the crisis underlined the need for an overhaul of eu fiscal rules .
"the future of europe and the future of germany within europe is at stake , " she told a debate on berlin's decision to lend ? 22 . 4 billion to greece .
a woodburn police officer and state police bomb squad technician were killed , while the city 's police chief remained in critical condition after a bomb exploded late friday at a woodburn bank .
the fbi and atf offered a $ 35,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the person or persons responsible for the explosion and deaths , oregon state police said .
the explosion happened at the west coast bank on the newberg 214 highway just before 5:30 p.m. , marion county deputies said .
officers were on the scene investigating a report of a suspicious device when the explosion occurred .
woodburn police department capt. tom tennant and oregon state police bomb technician bill hakim were killed in the blast .
woodburn chief of police scott russell was listed in critical condition at ohsu and a female bank employee received minor injuries .
on friday morning , a woodburn-area wells fargo bank received a threatening phone call from an unknown person .
bank personnel notified woodburn police department and the bank was evacuated while police investigated with the assistance of the fbi and an oregon state police bomb squad .
the investigation led to the west coast bank on highway 214 , just east of interstate 5 .
while investigators were in the area , a suspicious device detonated .
state police said the first device , discovered by police after the suspicious phone call , was determined not to be dangerous .
the second device , which was discovered by a bank employee , did detonate .
it was unclear to police whether the devices were related .
highway 214 in woodburn was to remain closed most of the weekend due to the explosion , police said .
residents and commuters were encouraged to find other routes of travel in the area .
" this individual took the life of two police officers , critically injured the chief of police , and potentially could have taken the lives of bank employees inside , " oregon state police lt. hastings said .
" if it takes a $ 35,000 reward , or if that reward grows , to break the case open then it 's money well spent . " .
hakim became the second bomb technician in oregon state police history to be killed in the line of duty .
marion county sheriffs described hakim as a dedicated family man with wife and two teenaged children .
woodburn police sgt. jason tlusty became emotional describing capt. tennant , who also was killed in the blast .
tlusty described tennant as an active community member " who would do anything to help those in need . " .
twelve hours into the investigation authorities said it remained unclear whether the two devices were related .
a multi-agency investigation involving federal , state , county and city police agencies is investigating , coordinated by the marion county sheriff 's office working with an interagency team of investigators and the marion county district attorney 's office .
anyone with information is asked to call the tip line at 800-800-3855 .
three die in bank during greek riots .
updated 5 / 5 / 2010 1 : 41 pm .
riots over harsh new austerity measures left three bank workers dead and engulfed the streets of athens on wednesday , as angry protesters tried to storm parliament , hurled molotov cocktails at police and torched buildings .
police responded with barrages of tear gas .
tens of thousands of people took to the streets in a nationwide strike to protest new taxes and government spending cuts demanded by the international monetary fund and other european nations before heavily indebted greece gets a euro110 billion ( $141 billion ) loan package to keep it from defaulting .
the three bank workers a man and two women died after demonstrators set their bank on fire along the main demonstration route in central athens .
as their colleagues sobbed in the street , five other bank workers were rescued from the balcony of the burning building .
"a demonstration is one thing and murder is quite another ! " prime minister george papandreou thundered in parliament during a session to discuss the spending cuts he announced sunday measures even the imf has called draconian .
lawmakers held a minute of silence for the dead the first deaths during a protest in greece since 1991 .
"we are all concerned by greece's economic and budgetary situation but at this time our thoughts are with the human victims in athens , " european union president herman van rompuy said in brussels .
a senior fire department official said demonstrators prevented firefighters from reaching the burning building , costing them vital time .
"several crucial minutes were lost , " the official said , visibly upset .
"if we had intervened earlier , the loss of life could have been prevented . " .
he asked not to be identified pending an official announcement .
in berlin , german chancellor angela merkel called the greek bailout critical for all of europe .
"nothing less than the future of europe , and with that the future of germany in europe , is at stake , " merkel told lawmakers in berlin , urging them to quickly pass the country's share of the bailout euro22 billion ( $28 billion ) over three years by friday .
"we are at a fork in the road . " .
greece faces a may 19 due date on debt it says it can't repay without the help .
in brussels , european union officials desperately tried to calm market fears that greece's debt crisis was spreading to the rest of europe , insisting it was a "unique case" combining profligacy and tampered accounts .
van rompuy insisted the growing debt problems in spain and portugal had "absolutely nothing to do with the situation in greece . " .
"greece is a unique and particular case in the eu" because of its "precarious debt dynamics" and because it "has cheated with its statistics for years and years , " eu commissioner olli rehn said .
but moody's investor services , a major ratings agency , put portugal's bond rating on review for possible downgrade wednesday .
spanish and portuguese bonds and stocks slumped further on the news , reflecting fears that they may also have trouble repaying their debt and that the eurozone would have to extend even larger bailouts to them .
on the streets of athens , demonstrators chanted "thieves , thieves ! " as they attempted to break through a riot police cordon guarding parliament and chased ceremonial guards away from the tomb of the unknown soldier in front of the building .
tear gas drifted across the city center as rioters hurled paving stones and fire bombs at police .
firefighters extinguished blazes at least two buildings the bank and a branch of the finance ministry while protesters set up burning barricades and torched cars and a fire truck .
police said 12 people were injured in the riots .
the marches came amid a 24 - hour nationwide general strike that grounded all flights to and from greece , shut down ports , schools and government services , and left hospitals working with emergency medical staff .
the acropolis and all other ancient sites were closed and journalists also walked off the job , suspending television and radio news broadcasts .
but media later broke the strike to report on the deaths and the protests .
violence also broke out in the northern city of thessaloniki , where another 20 , 000 people marched through the city center and some youths smashed store windows .
union reaction over austerity measures until now had been relatively muted by greece's volatile standards , despite several previous strikes .
but anger mounted after papandreou announced cuts in salaries and pensions for civil servants and another round of consumer tax increases .
papandreou said he has no choice but to implement the measures if greece was to avoid bankruptcy .
"there was only one other solution for the country to default , taking the citizenry with it .
and that would not have affected the rich , it would have affected workers and pensioners , " he told parliament on wednesday .
"that was a real possibility , however nightmarish . " .
under the bailout package , greece will receive loans over three years from the imf and the other 15 countries who share the euro currency .
the rescue aims to prevent athens' debt troubles from becoming a wider crisis for the euro .
but the rioting underlined skepticism that the greek government could keep up its end of the bargain , helping drive the euro below $1 . 29 for the first time in over a year .
even with the bailout , many economists think greece will eventually default on or restructure its debts because its prospects for economic growth are so poor over the next several years , hurting government revenue .
some fear the austerity measures insisted upon by the eu and imf could make prospects for growth even worse .
unions say low - income greeks will suffer disproportionately from the latest austerity measures , which aim to save euro30 billion ( $40 billion ) the country's current budget deficit through 2012 .
"these people are losing their rights , they are losing their future , " said yiannis panagopoulos , head of gsee , one of the two largest unions .
"the country cannot surrender without a fight . " .
imf chief dominique strauss - kahn warned that the crisis could spread to other countries despite the rescue package's efforts to contain it .
"everyone must remain extremely vigilant" to this risk , strauss - kahn said in an interview in french newspaper le parisien wednesday .
"i completely understand the greek population's anger , its incomprehension at the size of the economic catastrophe , " strauss - kahn said .
but , he said , greeks must also understand that without these measures "the situation would be infinitely more serious . " .
the draft bill of the new austerity measures is to be voted on thursday .
papandreou's socialists hold a comfortable majority of 160 in the 300 - seat parliament and the bill is expected to pass easily .
a bomb exploded at an oregon bank in woodburn late friday killing a police officer and a bomb technician .
according to woodburn police an officer arrived at the west coast bank after receiving a call that a suspicious device had been spotted in bushes near the bank .
the bank was evacuated and the device was moved inside at which time the bomb exploded .
earlier in the day a wells fargo bank had been contacted by an individual and told that a bomb had been planted .
after a sweep of the area was made authorities determined no bomb had been present .
shortly after , the west coast bank received a call with a similar warning .
three dead after fire - bomb hits bank during greek riots .
a fire - bomb attack on a bank in athens left at least three people dead as police fought pitched battles with striking protesters furious at brutal spending cuts designed to avoid national bankruptcy .
hooded youths hurled petrol bombs at stores and businesses in the greek capital , setting the bank and two government buildings ablaze .
protesters also tried to storm the greek parliament and the rioting spread to greece's second city , thessaloniki .
police said at least three people , a man and two women , were killed in the fire - bomb attack .
firefighters said as many as 20 people had been inside the bank .
it was unclear if the dead were customers or bank employees .
two buildings , one used by tax officials and another by regional authorities , also caught fire .
greek president carolos papoulias condemned the violence , saying the debt - hit country had "reached the edge of the abyss" .
"our country has reached the edge of the abyss .
it is the responsibility of us all to not take the step into the void .
"what is at stake in coming days is to keep social cohesion and social peace . " .
greek prime minister george papandreou said the firebombing was a "raw murderous act" .
athens underground stations were shuttered and the international airport deserted as tens of thousands of union members rallied on the eve of a vote in parliament on the planned cuts and tax hikes .
the general strike was the first major test of the socialist government's resolve to push through unprecedented measures since agreeing a 110 billion ( $158 billion ) eu and imf debt bailout over the weekend .
prime minister george papandreou's insistence that the measures are vital for the nation's survival failed to dissuade unions from paralysing public transport , grounding air traffic and preventing ferries from leaving docks .
after rallying in two separate demonstrations in central athens , members of the main unions began converging on parliament , where the government was preparing for the measures to be voted on thursday .
a bomb exploded friday at a west coast bank branch in woodburn , oregon , killing a woodburn police officer and an oregon state police bomb squad technician , and critically injuring the woodburn police chief .
three killed in athens bank fire amid strike .
7 : 00pm uk , wednesday 05 may 2010 .
three people have died after rioters in greece set fire to a bank in athens during a nationwide strike against huge spending cuts aimed at rescuing the country's economy .
greek police clashed with protesters in the capital as tens of thousands of people joined a 24 - hour walkout .
the three bank workers - two women and a man - were killed when their branch went up in flames after a protester threw a petrol bomb inside .
firefighters rescued another five people from the balcony .
greek prime minister george papandreou condemned the killings , saying : "a demonstration is one thing and murder is quite another" .
he added : "we will , of course , stand alongside the families who lost loved ones .
this is the least we can do .
"to those who now mourn the loss of three children we say that the perpetrators will be identified and held accountable for what they've done . " .
the general strike was staged as a protest against a new round of draconian austerity measures .
police said as many as 20 , 000 people took to the streets of athens as rallies all around the country kicked off .
also in the capital , a large group of people attempted to break through a riot police cordon guarding the parliament building .
the protesters launched rocks and petrol bombs at the officers , who responded with stun grenades and tear gas - filling syntagma square with chemical smoke .
violence was also reported in thessaloniki , where a further 20 , 000 people joined the city's demonstrations .
greece has been paralysed by the strike and was effectively cut - off from the outside world .
flights to and from the country were grounded , while trains and ferries suspended their routes .
hospitals and schools were also hit .
the greek government is attempting to slice 30bn euros ( 25 . 7bn ) from its deficit over the next three years .
the country has to save money as a condition of a 110bn - euro emergency rescue package from the european union and the international monetary fund .
ordinary workers are furious .
trade unions say their members are having to pay for an economic crisis that has been created by corrupt politicians .
the vice president of the civil servants' union , elias vrettakos , told sky news : "the measures of the government overtake our historic gains and abolish our rights and return society back to the 1960s . " .
other union leaders have called the cuts "savage attacks on workers' rights" .
markets around the world remained sceptical about the bail - out , as concerns grew about the economic crisis in the eurozone and fears it will spead .
oregon state police say a bomb explosion at a woodburn-area bank killed a local police officer and a state bomb disposal technician .
the police said saturday both were dead at the scene of the explosion the day before , but the police delayed announcing the death of 51-year-old senior trooper william hakim so his family could be notified .
at a briefing , the police identified the woodburn police officer who died as 51-year-old capt. tom tennant .
woodburn 's police chief , 46-year-old scott russell , is in a portland hospital , in critical condition .
state police say the inside of the west coast bank branch office was extensively damaged .
the police say they do n't have suspects .
war - zone athens : three people dead , many buildings burning as general strike march turns into a battle .
may 5 2010 15 : 14 .
three people have suffocated to death as a result of a fire in marfin bank during ongoing battles between anti - measure protesters and police in athens .
the athens protest march marking the zenith of the general strike called for the 5th of may was attended by an approximate 200 , 000 ( 20 , 000 which is the foreign broadcast number referring to the pame march alone ) , although because of lack of media coverage due to the media participation in the general strike no concrete estimates can be made .
after the pame ( communist party union ) protesters left syntagma square , the first lines of the main march started arriving before the parliament with the first clashes erupting at the end of stadiou street .
the march then walked on the unknown soldier grounds leading the presidential guard to retreat , and attempted to storm the parliament but was pushed back by riot police forces which today demonstrated a particularly staunch attitude and resolve against the demonstrators .
soon battles erupted around the parliament with protesters throwing molotov cocktails and rocks , with one riot police armored van torched , and the police responding by extended use of tear gas that soon made athens' atmosphere unbearably acrid .
as more blocks reached syntagma square , the battles spread across the city center and lasted for more than five hours .
during the clashes several state buildings were set ablaze including the county headquarters of attika .
at the time of writing the ministry of finance is reported to be on fire , and vital tax documents as destroyed by the raging fire .
however the strange thing is that it is the fourth floor of the building that is burning , at a height inapproachable to petrol bombs .
the building is in danger of total collapse .
according to news reports that began at 14 : 00 greek time after , under pressure by the events , most radio and tv stations decided to break their strike , claim that the fire at marfin bank's stadiou street branch that has led to the death of three workers ( one a pregnant woman ) was started by protesters .
however this remains an unsubstantiated claim .
a similar case three decades ago had originally put the blame for the fire at kappa - marousi building on panepistimiou street , leading to the death of several people inside , to anarchists , while its was later proved the fire was caused by tear gas fired by the police .
after the tragic death of the three workers made the round of athens , new clashes started to spread in the greek capital , with a large crowd gathered outside the burned bank when marfin's boss tried to visit the site .
clashes broke out between the crowd and police when the former attacked the bank magnate accusing him of forcing the dead workers to scab on a general strike and locking them in the building despite them demanding to evacuate it since 12 : 00 .
in parliament the communist party of greece has accused the government for the deaths , claiming it was a result of agents provocateur fascist groups .
the claims of the communist party are based on the fact that 50 fascists tried to enter the pame demo bearing the flags of the union earlier in the morning .
the fascists were spotted , chased and sought refuge behind riot police lines .
accusing the extreme - right as being behind the deaths , the coalition of radical left has declared in parliament that the government cannot pretend to be in grief for the loss of life , as it has been attacking human life by all means possible .
meanwhile , extended clashes broke out in salonika where approximately 50 , 000 people marched destroying dozens of banks and corporate shops in greece's second largest city .
clashes with the police continued for several hours .
according to news broadcasts anarchist have occupied the labour center of the city .
in patras , around 20 , 000 protesters were joined by tractor drivers and garbage truck drivers on their vehicles , as flaming barricades were erected along central streets of the city and clashes developed between protestors and the police .
in ioannina the protesters attacked banks and corporate shops leading to extended use of chemicals by the police .
in heraklion , 10 , 000 people are reported as marching against the measures .
in corfu , protesters taking part in the anti - measures march occupied the county headquarters .
protesters have occupied the administrative headquarters of naxos and the city hall of naoussa .
as a result of the athens riots , the police have cordoned off the entire center of the city , erecting check points of entry and exit , while all police work permits have been recalled .
at the time of writing battles continue to rage in the inner city , while news broadcasts claim the police is mobilising its forces to storm an anarchist squat in exarcheia .
bomb explodes at woodburn bank , killing a police officer and osp bomb technician .
a bomb exploded friday at a west coast bank branch in woodburn , killing a woodburn police officer and an oregon state police bomb squad technician , and critically injuring the woodburn police chief .
the bomb detonated around 5:30 p.m. at the bank in the 2500 block of oregon 214 .
the victims have been identified as senior trooper william hakim of the oregon state police and capt. tom tennant of the woodburn police department , both described by colleagues this morning as dedicated professionals and family men .
hakim is the second bomb technician to die in the line of duty in the history of the oregon state police , hastings said. he leaves behind a wife and two children , a 16-year-old son and an 18-year-old daughter .
tennant was promoted to captain four years ago .
he leaves behind a wife and three children , a 17-year-old son and two grown daughters .
tennant 's longtime colleague , woodburn police sgt. jason tlusty , was visibly shaken as he described his friend and coworker this morning .
courtesy of the woodburn independentscott russell , woodburn police chief .
woodburn police chief scott russell received critical injuries and was taken to ohsu hospital , according to osp lt. gregg hastings .
a hospital representative said russell , a 20-year veteran of the department with two daughters , is in an intensive care unit this morning .
hastings this morning announced that the atf and fbi are offering a $ 35,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the individual responsible for the crime .
he described those responsible as " very dangerous . " .
" that person needs to be found as soon as possible , " hastings said during the somber press conference this morning .
a bank employee suffered non-life threatening injuries .
the other identities were not released .
marion county deputy medical examiner rodge womack said police were concerned there might be a second bomb in the area ; police dogs and a robot were combing the area late into the night .
an undetermined number of people living within a block of the bank were evacuated from their homes friday , and a quarter-mile area around the crime scene was cordoned off .
the bank had been evacuated before the bomb detonated , according to west coast bank chief executive robert sznewajs .
the branch has been there for at least 10 years , he said .
the blast came several hours after someone made a threatening phone call to wells fargo around 10:30 a.m. oregon state police , the fbi and woodburn police responded to the call .
police did not provide much detail about what transpired between then and 5:30 p.m. , when the bomb went off at west coast bank .
but according to sznewajs , two bomb threats came into the two banks , which sit side by side on oregon 214 .
police responded to both , but it was an employee who found a suspicious device under the bushes outside west coast bank .
sznewajs told the statesman journal that his bank for a call " from an unknown person saying that we should look for one as well .
we called authorities , but they looked and found nothing . " .
sznewajs said that " one of our people saw a device in the bushes around the branch and called authorities .
we looked at it and evacuated the branch and sent people away . " .
he said authorities decided to move the device inside the branch and apparently scanned it -- and then it went off .
sznewajs said he did not know whether the bomb went off on its own or as a result of the technicians ' investigation .
after the blast , officers closed down a large swath of the commercial strip , populated by gas stations , fast food shops and strip malls .
marion county sheriff russ isham said the area will remain closed through the weekend , adding that he did not know if there could be additional bombs .
police ask anyone with information to call the atf at 800-800-3855 .
investigators for the fbi and the atf were dispatched to the scene .
police said early today that a multi-agency investigation involving federal , state , county and city police agencies has begun to identify suspects .
the blast shook up area residents .
bob currie , 66 , a resident of panor senior condominiums which overlooks the wells fargo branch , said that in the morning he saw a police car blocking the drive-up teller window and an fbi bomb technician checking a garbage can in the parking lot .
he said the wells fargo evacuated at 1:30 p.m. and he saw people leaving the bank from his balcony .
later in the afternoon , " i went back to my computer and all of a sudden heard this loud ka-boom . " .
t.j. simons , 17 , who works at the 76 station on oregon 214 about 500 feet from the bank , also heard the blast .
" at first i thought it was thunder , until i saw all the cops showing up . " .
" it sounded like somebody tossing a dumpster off a three-story building , " said jan olson , who was smoking on her deck in the nearby evergreen estates apartment complex .
3 dead after protesters torch greek bank .
updated thu 6 may 2010 , 9 : 03am aest .
three people died in a burning bank as tens of thousands of protesters took to the streets of athens during a general strike over the greek government's planned spending cuts .
some protesters tried to storm parliament while others threw petrol bombs at police and torched buildings in protest against new austerity measures and a decision to raise taxes to meet the conditions of its international bailout .
a petrol bomb hurled at an athens branch of the marfin investment bank killed two women and a man who were caught in the resulting inferno .
it was always going to be hard to convince greeks that ripping $43 billion out of their public services and hiking their taxes was a necessary consequence of the international bailout .
as the greek prime minister george papandreou looked out from his parliamentary office , he saw exactly how angry they were .
"we are all deeply shocked by the unjust death of three of our citizens - citizens that were victims of a raw , murderous act , " mr papandreou said .
a professor of economics at the university of athens , yanis varoufakis , did not go to work today because it was not safe .
but he rode his bicycle into the city to survey the aftermath of the day's mass demonstration .
"what i did witness was the battlefields after the troops had departed , " he said .
"there were a few still burning or smoking cars , a couple of fire engines that had been torched , a building that belongs to the finance ministry - not far away from home - was completely burned down .
"otherwise , it was an empty city without people . " .
professor varoufakis blames angry youths for the violence and deaths .
"it seems it was a large demonstration , which unfortunately was infiltrated by the usual band of 100 or 200 professional [ trouble - makers ] , " he said .
"they're the ones who created the circumstances for the death , the tragic death and loss of those three people . " .
but professor varoufakis says there is "a very deep sense of injustice" across greece .
"in the foreign media , even the local media , there is a portrayal of the greek people living above their means , who are lazy , who are not working .
the truth , as always , is quite different from appearances , " he said .
"this is a country of incredibly hard - working people , people who have two and three jobs in order to make ends meet .
"greece is also a country with the highest degree of poverty outside of latvia in the whole of europe , not just the eurozone , and it is a country in which a great deal of money was made over the last 10 - 20 years , but it was highly concentrated in a very small percentage of the population .
"the rest have been struggling through the good times , through times of economic growth , to survive .
not to have a good life but just to survive , and they are the ones who now have to foot the bill for the economic collapse . " .
as athens burned , many in berlin were still fuming about having to foot most of the bill for greek profligacy .
german chancellor angela merkel addressed parliament , raising her voice above the catcalls and angry hecklers from the opposition parties .
"this is about nothing less than the future of europe and with it the future of germany in europe , " she said .
approval ratings for the chancellor have dropped six points since the aid package for greece was announced .
ms merkel might pay a higher political price on the weekend when crucial regional elections are held .
senior trooper william hakim , a bomb squad technician with the oregon state police , and capt. tom tennant of the woodburn police department were killed when a bomb exploded at a west coast bank branch .
greek anti - austerity march erupts in violence , 3 dead .
wed may 5 , 2010 7 : 12pm bst .
three people , one of them a pregnant woman , were killed when greeks protesting against government austerity measures threw petrol bombs at a bank in athens on wednesday .
tens of thousands of striking workers and civil servants took to the streets and masked youths clashed with police in riot gear , who responded with steady rounds of tear gas and flash bombs which clouded the city centre .
it was the worst violence to hit greece since riots in 2008 .
the violence was a blow to prime minister george papandreou's plans to push through tough budget cuts demanded by the european union and international monetary fund in exchange for a 110 billion euro ( 93 . 6 billion pound ) aid package unveiled on sunday .
police said two women and one man , between 30 and 40 years old , working for a marfin bank branch choked on smoke after protesters broke the windows of a commercial building on central stadiou avenue and tossed in molotov cocktails .
marfin bank officials told reuters one of the female victims was pregnant .
firemen had to restrain a distraught elderly woman outside the bank , who wept and cried "my child , my child . " .
papandreou expressed shock at the deaths and vowed to bring those responsible to justice .
"we are deeply shocked by the unjust death of these three people , our fellow citizens , who were victims of a murderous act , " he told parliament .
he also defended his austerity plans , which foresee 30 billion euros in savings mainly from cuts in wages and pensions , and said the government would not abandon its drive to save the country from ruin .
"we took these decisions to save the country , " he said .
"the alternative would be bankruptcy . " .
biggest protest .
protesters tried to storm parliament but were pushed back by riot police shortly before it started to debate the austerity bill .
opposition conservatives are refusing to support it , but the government , which enjoys a comfortable majority , hopes to pass it by the end of the week .
police put the march , to mark a 24 - hour nationwide strike , at roughly 30 , 000 people .
but witnesses said there were more than 50 , 000 - - easily the biggest protest since papandreou took office last october and launched efforts to reform an economy that is uncompetitive and plagued by corruption .
hundreds of black - hooded anarchists roamed the streets , smashing store windows and hacking chunks of marble off buildings to throw at police .
although they were behind the worst of the violence , other protesters joined them in pelting police with bottles , shouting "thieves ! " .
presidential guards , who usually stand immobile in front of the assembly building , left their posts as the clashes worsened .
"our country is on the edge of the abyss , " greek president karolos papoulias said in a statement .
"we are all responsible so that it does not take the step into the void . " .
the marchers had dispersed by late afternoon , leaving streets littered with burnt out garbage containers .
dozens of shop windows were smashed , including a bookstore near the burnt bank .
two other buildings besides the bank were set on fire .
police said 18 people had been injured in the violence and 12 arrested for carrying weapons and resisting authorities .
blow to government .
the eu and imf aid was intended to calm markets and give the government time to overhaul the economy and bring down a deficit that totalled 13 . 6 percent of national economic output last year .
but the euro currency and greek assets have been pummelled by concern that social unrest could thwart government plans to push through the measures , and on fears that greece's woes could spread to other euro zone countries such as portugal and spain .
in past months anti - austerity protests had been fairly peaceful , but wednesday's violence was similar to that seen in the december 2008 riots , which broke out when police killed a teenager and dragged on for weeks .
wednesday's strike grounded flights , shut shops and brought public transport to a standstill and the main public sector union adedy said it was planning more walkout for next week .
"the big participation in the strike today and the crowds that flooded the streets of athens . . . sent a message to the government : we will not let the eu and the imf measures pass , " said ilias vrettakos , deputy head of the union .
apostolos kolokythopoulos , a 70 - year old pensioner who lives on less than 1 , 000 euros a month , said the walkouts were needed to force the government to change course .
"i agree with the strikes .
if people don't react , don't protest , how will things change ? " he said .
centre - left daily eleftherotypia warned young greeks would rise up if nothing was done to give them hope of a future .
"if nothing is done , the explosion of the angry and the disappointed will sweep everything away , " the paper said .
"have we forgotten december 2008 and become complacent ? " .
greek prime minister calls bank workers' riot deaths 'murder' .
published may 05 , 2010 .
the greek prime minister has denounced what he called the "murder" of three bank workers killed when the building they were in was torched during protests in athens against harsh new austerity measures .
prime minister george papandreou vowed wednesday that those responsible for the deaths would be found and brought to justice .
he told parliament that "a demonstration is one thing and murder is quite another . " .
the two women and a man were killed during demonstrations by tens of thousands who marched through athens .
the national strike was held to protest the austerity measures announced last weekend so that greece can get a $144 billion bailout from the international monetary fund and other european nations .
three people died when an athens bank went up in flames wednesday as tens of thousands of greeks took to the streets to protest harsh spending cuts aimed at saving the country from bankruptcy .
the fire brigade said the bodies were found in the wreckage of a marfin bank branch , on the route of the march in the city center .
demonstrators chanting "thieves , thieves" attempted to break through a riot police cordon guarding parliament and chased the ceremonial guards away from the tomb of the unknown soldier in front of the building .
an estimated 100 , 000 people took to the streets as part of nationwide strikes to protest austerity measures imposed as a condition of bailout loans from the international monetary fund and other eurozone governments .
the bailout is needed to keep heavily indebted greece from defaulting on its debts .
the loans are aimed at preventing athens' debt troubles from becoming a wider crisis for the euro by engulfing other financially troubled countries such as spain and portugal .
but the rioting underlined skepticism that the greek government could keep up its end of the bargain , helping drive the euro below $1 . 29 for the first time in over a year .
union reaction until now had been relatively muted by greece's volatile standards , although the country has been hit by a series of strikes .
but anger has mounted after the announcement of new austerity measures , which were essential to unlock the loans .
papandreou on sunday announced cuts in salaries and pensions for civil servants , and another round of consumer tax increases , as a condition of the bailout .
in germany , chancellor angela merkel urged parliament to quickly pass the country's share of the bailout - - 22 billion euros over three years .
the goal is passage by friday ; greece faces a may 19 due date on debt it says it can't repay without the bailout .
"nothing less than the future of europe , and with that the future of germany in europe , is at stake , " merkel told lawmakers .
"we are at a fork in the road . " .
extensive clashes took place a broad swathe of central athens , with hundreds of people battering store fronts and smashing paving stones to throw at the police , who responded with stun grenades and volleys of tear gas that left clouds of smoke hovering over the streets .
violence also broke out in the northern city of thessaloniki , where another 20 , 000 people marched through the city center , with youths smashing windows of stores and fast food restaurants .
the outpouring of anger appeared much more spontaneous than the frequent set piece battles between police and anarchist youths who often spark violence during greek demonstrations .
the marches came amid a 24 - hour nationwide general strike that grounded all flights to and from greece , shut down ports , schools and government services and left hospitals working with emergency medical staff .
the acropolis and all other ancient sites were closed , while journalists also walked off the job , suspending television and radio news broadcasts .
some media - - including state television and the ta nea newspaper web site - - broke the strike to report on the deaths .
greek unions concede that the cash - strapped government was forced to increase consumer taxes and slash spending , including cutting salaries and pensions for civil servants .
but they say low - income greeks will suffer disproportionately from the measures , which aim to save $40 billion - - the country's current budget deficit - - through 2012 .
"these people are losing their rights , they are losing their future , " said yiannis panagopoulos , head of gsee , one of the two largest union organizations .
"the country cannot surrender without a fight . " .
imf head dominique strauss - kahn warned that the crisis could spread to other countries despite the rescue package's efforts to contain it .
"everyone must remain extremely vigilant , " to this risk , strauss - kahn said in an interview published in french newspaper le parisien wednesday .
"i completely understand the greek populations' anger , its incomprehension at the size of the economic catastrophe , " strauss - kahn said .
but greeks must also understand that without these measures , "the situation would be infinitely more serious , " he said .
those who are feeling the crunch are outraged that they have to pay for what they see as politicians' mismanagement of their country's economy .
"we'll be on the streets every day , every day !
you never win unless you fight , " said 76 - year - old constantinos doganis , who gets euro345 a month from his farming pension fund .
"it's our fault too , all the mistakes made by politicians over 30 years , all the people who cheat on their taxes , " he said .
"but they are behaving like buzzards - - the germans borrow money at 3 percent and then lend it to us for 5 .
why ? " .
despite the strike , the draft bill of the new austerity measures is to be voted on thursday .
prime minister george papandreou's socialists hold a comfortable majority of 160 in the 300 - seat parliament , and with a simple majority of 151 votes needed , the bill is expected to be passed easily .
the bush administration is reducing protections for endangered animals and plants .
just six weeks before democratic president-elect barack obama takes office , the current republican administration is changing endangered species regulations .
some mandatory , independent reviews that government scientists have performed for 35 years are being eliminated .
the scientists ' advice from such reviews can delay or block dams , highways and other projects .
the new rules will take effect in about 30 days .
the rules also prohibit federal agencies from evaluating the effect on endangered species and the places they live from a project 's contribution to increased global warming .
obama has promised to reverse the new rules .
congress also could overturn them .
president barack obama overturns bush administration ruling on endangered species act .
wednesday , march 4 , 2009 , 10 : 53 am .
president barack obama announced plans tuesday to resume full scientific reviews of projects that might harm endangered wildlife and plants .
the president signed a memorandum putting on hold a bush administration regulation allowing agencies to avoid scientific reviews in endangered species decisions .
during a visit to the interior department , obama said the review process had been undermined by past administrations .
"for more than three decades , the endangered species act has successfully protected our nation's most threatened wildlife .
we should be looking for ways to improve it , not weaken it , " obama said .
obama's action puts the bush regulation on hold until the interior and commerce departments complete a review .
while on the campaign trail , obama said he would fight to maintain the protections of the endangered species act and work to undo what was then a proposal by the bush administration .
the rule , finalized in december , made optional the mandatory , independent consultations federal scientists have performed for 35 years on projects .
the reviews have been blamed by developers and federal agencies for delays and cost increases .
instead , the bush rule allowed federal agencies to decide for themselves whether projects such as dams and power plants posed risks to endangered species or the places they live .
these changes , which were completed in a relatively short time , were described at the time by the bush administration as minor .
but democrats and environmentalists have argued that the regulations overhauled long - standing policy .
democratic leaders in congress who have been attempting to reverse the rule applauded the president's decision .
"i wholeheartedly support the president's proposal to restore the protections for endangered species that the bush administration spent so many years trying to undermine , " said rep . nick rahall , d - w . va . , who chairs the house natural resources committee .
rahall is pushing to overturn the rule through a congressional resolution .
there is also a provision tucked into the $410 billion spending bill the house passed last week that would allow the interior and commerce secretaries to withdraw regulations .
since the rule took effect before obama was sworn in , overturning it through regulation would require a lengthy review process .
industry and business representatives said restoring scientific input would only delay projects , including those that will be funded by the recently passed stimulus package .
but obama , in announcing his decision , said that economic recovery and protecting the environment are not at odds with one another .
"we can grow our economy today , " obama said , "and preserve the environment for ourselves and our children and our grandchildren . " .
scientific consultations under endangered species act restored .
washington , dc , april 28 , 2009 .
the obama administration today revoked an eleventh - hour bush - era rule that undermined protections for plants and animals listed as threatened or endangered under the endangered species act .
passed in january 2009 , the bush - era rule lifted the requirement that federal agencies consult wildlife experts with the u . s . fish and wildlife service or the national oceanic and atmospheric administration before taking actions that could harm listed species .
the bush move allowed federal agencies to decide for themselves if their own projects , such as roads , dams and mines , would hurt species .
secretary of commerce gary locke and secretary of the interior ken salazar , who head the two agencies that administer the endangered species act , said their decision to again require consultation before action is based on sound science .
"by rolling back this 11th hour regulation , we are ensuring that threatened and endangered species continue to receive the full protection of the law , " salazar said .
"because science must serve as the foundation for decisions we make , federal agencies proposing to take actions that might affect threatened and endangered species will once again have to consult with biologists at the two departments , " he said .
"for decades , the endangered species act has protected threatened species and their habitats , " said locke .
"our decision affirms the administration's commitment to using sound science to promote conservation and protect the environment . " .
in march , president barack obama directed the secretaries to review the previous administration's section 7 regulation of the endangered species act , which governs interagency consultation .
congress , in the 2009 omnibus appropriations act , specifically authorized the secretaries to revoke the regulation .
locke and salazar said the two departments will conduct a joint review of the 1986 consultation regulations that are now once again in effect to determine if any improvements should be proposed .
the endangered species act was signed into law in 1973 to protect imperiled species from extinction , as well as conserve the ecosystems and habitats necessary for their survival .
today there are 1 , 009 species in the united states listed as endangered under the act - 409 animals and 600 plants .
an additional 162 animals and 146 plants are listed as threatened .
environmentalists and scientists who had lobbied against making consultation discretionary were pleased with the decision .
betsy loyless , national audubon society senior vice president for advocacy and policy , said , "the obama administration has given a great gift to wildlife and to future generations .
once again , our nation will follow the letter of the law and the advice of its own best experts before jeopardizing the future of threatened and endangered species . " .
the decision comes as president obama prepares to mark his first 100 days in office on wednesday .
loyless said , "the president has capped his first hundred days with a serious step toward restoring our commitment to this nation's great natural heritage . " .
last friday , 1 , 300 biologists and three scientific societies representing some 20 , 000 scientists - the ornithological council , society for conservation biology and the wildlife society - sent separate letters to the interior and commerce departments urging them to overturn the last - minute bush rule change .
"many federal agencies do not have the scientific expertise to determine the consequences of federal projects on endangered species and may have vested interests in the implementation of a project , " said stuart pimm , doris duke professor of conservation ecology at duke university , who helped organize the scientists' letter .
pimm said the bush rule excluded from the process expert scientists who for decades have provided impartial review and critical analysis of proposed projects .
alan thornhill , an ecologist and executive director of the society for conservation biology , said , "as the threats we face continue to evolve , federal scientists must be able to evaluate their consequences for imperiled species .
putting boundaries on the science that informs the endangered species act fundamentally undermines the ability of science and scientists to protect our nation's biodiversity . " .
"politics plays a huge role in such decisions , " said michael hutchins , executive director and chief executive of the wildlife society .
"expert review and oversight are critical . " .
francesca grifo , director of union of concerned scientists' scientific integrity program , said lifting the requirement for consultation was one of a number of ways the bush administration weakened the act , and more work remains to be done .
"several last - minute bush administration regulatory changes have undermined the scientific foundation of the endangered species act , and today the obama administration has begun to repair the damage , " she said .
"the message from tens of thousands of scientists around the country is clear - these unwarranted changes fundamentally undermine our ability to protect imperiled plants and animals . " .
"today , the obama administration restored critical checks and balances to protect our nation's biodiversity , " said grifo .
"but there is much more to be done .
the obama administration must thoroughly review how science is used to ensure that our nation's imperiled species have a chance to survive - and thrive . " .
obama white house reverses bush rule on protection of endangered species .
 interior and commerce departments agree .
 government wildlife experts to be consulted on development .
tuesday 28 april 2009 22 . 34 bst .
the obama administration overturned one of the most controversial environmental measures of the george bush era today , striking down a rule that had weakened protection for endangered species .
officials at the interior and commerce ministries said they had returned to a requirement that government wildlife experts sign off on any new development - mining , logging or road construction - that could hurt animals , fish or plants that are at risk of going extinct .
today's move was the latest in a series of declarations by obama officials meant to chip away at the bush environmental legacy .
a number of those measures were put in place in the final hours of the bush administration , in what became known as "midnight regulations" .
until last december , developers had been required for more than two decades to get approval from government wildlife experts before embarking on new projects .
but the bush administration in its final days brought in a rule leaving it up to businesses to consult with government biologists on the impact of new development .
environmentalists had accused bush of effectively gutting protections for threatened or endangered species , and activists had sent more than 70 , 000 petitions to officials in the obama administration urging them to cancel the "midnight regulation" .
in a statement , the commerce secretary , gary locke , and the interior secretary , ken salazar , agreed .
after a scientific reviewed ordered by obama last month , they said they had reached the conclusion that such protections were indeed necessary .
"by rolling back this 11th hour regulation we are ensuring that threatened and endangered species continue to receive the full protection of the law , the two men said in a statement .
"federal agencies proposing to take actions that might affect threatened and endangered species will once again have to consult with biologists . " .
there was no word on another so - called midnight regulation that undermined protection for polar bear , an omission criticised by some activists today .
the move , which had been anticipated , comes just 24 hours after salazar took steps against another midnight regulation .
the interior secretary said he would ask the courts to overturn a last - minute rule that made it easier for coal mining operations engaged in mountaintop removal to dump dirt near streams .
obama overturns bush midnight rules on science , health care .
mar 5 , 2009 .
controversial rulings enacted in the 11th hour by the bush administration are being examined for policy and legal implications by the obama administration .
several regulations affecting health care and the environment have been overturned .
in his final months in office , former president george w . bush enacted several highly controversial policies that affect health care and wildlife .
in just a little over a month in office , president barack obama has sidelined or overturned several of them , and has also reached back over the years to reverse policies enacted during bush " s first term .
a bush administration draft plan to allow oil and gas drilling off the atlantic and pacific coasts was sidelined by the obama administration on feb . 10 .
"to establish an orderly process that allows us to make wise decisions based on sound information , we need to set aside" the plan , said new interior secretary ken salazar who extended the public comment period on offshore drilling by six months .
obama has maintained that expanded offshore drilling should be part of a larger energy blueprint developed out in the open with congress , not within the departments of commerce and interior department alone .
on feb . 27 , the obama administration announced its intention to reverse the so - called " medical conscience " rule , following a 30 - day comment period .
the rule gave health care workers the right to refuse to participate in services they consider immoral .
the rule was vaguely worded and extended the right to refuse service to everyone from receptionists and janitors to hospital executives and insurance company ceos .
opponents considered the rule , which took effect the day before obama " s inauguration , a thinly veiled maneuver to limit access to legal abortions , contraceptives , and living will directives .
on march 3 , obama overturned another 11th hour bush regulation that weakened the endangered species act and pitted federal agencies against each other .
the regulation allowed federal agencies to sidestep scientific evidence gathered by u . s . fish and wildlife service and national marine fisheries service experts when launching construction projects that impact endangered wildlife .
when overturning the regulation , obama said he was restoring "the scientific process to its rightful place at the heart of the endangered species act , a process undermined by past administrations . " .
the obama administration will also move quickly to reverse some older bush rulings .
on january 30 , obama signed an executive order rescinding a 2001 bush policy change that barred u . s . financial aid to international organizations that provide or promote abortions .
first implemented by president reagan and called the " mexico city " rule , the policy is reversed whenever there is a change in ideology in the white house .
obama said the policy toward international family planning "has been used as a political wedge issue . " .
he said his administration would " initiate a fresh conversation on family planning , working to find areas of common ground to best meet the needs of women and families at home and around the world . " .
the obama administration plans to head off many of bush " s midnight hour rules still in the pipeline before they take effect .
on inauguration day , federal agency heads were sent a memo stating that they should freeze all bush regulations in the pipeline .
office of management and budget director peter orszag followed up with a jan . 21 memo giving agency heads these options for dealing with bush - era " rules which raise substantial questions of law or policy : " extending the effective date of a rule , reopening the notice and comment period , issuing interim final rules , and deciding not to defend court challenges to bush administration rules .
for a partial list of bush " s midnight regulations and their current status , visit propublica .
with just over a month remaining in office , the bush administration loosened federal protection of plant and animal species threatened with extinction .
on thursday , the interior department announced a change to section 7 of the endangered species act , which required federal agencies to consult with scientists at the fish and wildlife service or the national marine fisheries service to determine whether a project is likely to affect any listed species .
under the new rule , federal agencies such as the federal highway administration can in many cases simply check with their own personnel to determine if their activities will harm any of the 1,247 animal and 747 plant species listed as endangered or threatened .
" the rule strengthens the regulations so the government can focus on protecting endangered species as it strives to rebuild the american economy , " said secretary of the interior dirk kempthorne .
it started with the polar bears .
the rule change has its origins in a may announcement by the interior department that listed the polar bear as threatened because global warming is melting its habitat .
it was the first animal to be listed because of climate change .
in that announcement , interior secretary dirk kempthorne said that even though global climate change is the reason that the bear is on the endangered species list in the first place , that list is " not the means , nor the method , nor the vehicle by which you can deal with global climate change . " .
the interior department 's press release cites a may editorial from the washington post that endorses this view .
that mr. kempthorne has to contort his agency to ensure that it does n't get dragged into setting us climate policy is simply more proof of the need for such a policy , supported by the white house and ratified by congress , that aims at sharply reducing greenhouse-gas emissions .
though the polar bear deserves protection , the endangered species act is not the means and the fish and wildlife service is not the agency to arrest global warming .
the release quotes the second sentence of that paragraph .
so under the new rules , federal agencies that are undertaking a project need not check with fish and wildlife or national marine fisheries under these circumstances .
where the action has no effect on a listed species or critical habitat , or .
where the action is wholly beneficial , or .
where the effects of the action can not be measured or detected in a manner that permits meaningful evaluation using the best available science , or .
where the effects of the action are the result of global processes and can not be reliably predicted or measured on the scale of species current range , or would result in an insignificant impact to a listed species , or are such that the potential risk of harm to a species is remote .
reactions .
environmentalists are less than thrilled by this rule change .
andrew wetzler , director of the natural resources defense council 's endangered species program , says his organization will probably sue .
" this administration has rejected anything with a whiff of science .
so before sulking out the back door , they are going after rules that require fish and wildlife service scientists to prevent harm to our last wild animals and places .
despite today 's feel-good statements , we remain convinced that these changes are illegal .
we will look at the final language when it is published tomorrow , but i think we will see them in court . " .
defenders of the wildlife , who have filed suit along with greenpeace and the center for biological diversity , are similarly disgusted by the bush administration 's actions .
" this administration 's disdain for wildlife and the environment has never been more clear than it is today , " said jamie rappaport clark , executive vice president of defenders of wildlife and former director of the fish and wildlife service .
" for 35 years , the endangered species act has helped save and recover imperiled wildlife on the brink of extinction .
now , with this administration facing its last days , they are doing everything they can to cement their anti-environmental legacy before the obama administration takes office . " .
the us chamber of commerce welcomed the rule change .
reversible ?
obama says that he intends to reverse the rule change , along with other " midnight rules " made in the waning days of the bush presidency .
but that may be easier said than done .
propublica , a nonprofit investigative news organization , notes that while last-minute rules that have not yet taken effect can be quickly reversed by obama 's appointees or by executive order , rules that are in force when he takes office can not .
rescinding a rule would require the new administration to restart the rulemaking process , which can take years and prompt legal challenges .
another strategy that has been talked about lately - getting congress to disapprove the rules through the congressional review act - carries political risks and has been used only once before .
the new endangered species rule takes effect nine days before obama 's inauguration .
there is still a chance that the rule could be quickly reversed , however .
usa today reports that rep. nick rahall ( d ) of west virginia , the chairman of the house natural resources committee , says that he will likely invoke the congressional review act , a rarely used law that gives congress 60 days to review and overrule regulations issued by government agencies .
apr 28 .
obama administration restores endangered species act protections !
today , interior secretary ken salazar and commerce secretary gary locke announced the restoration of rules under the endangered species act that help protect endangered species when government decisions or projects are implemented .
the rules were weakened in the final days of the bush administration .
the department of interior sent out this press release announcing the decision today .
their decision requires federal agencies to once again consult with federal wildlife experts at the u . s . fish and wildlife service and the national oceanic and atmospheric administration before taking any action that may affect threatened or endangered species .
the action will restore an important check - and - balance system that enables government projects to move forward and at the same time protect at - risk species .
the restoration of these protections is amazing news for our country " s wildlife , fish and plants on the brink of extinction .
making this decision within the first 100 days of office is also an important symbol that america will once again respect science and environmental protections .
the endangered species coalition is incredibly grateful to president obama , secretary locke and secretary salazar for their leadership on addressing the urgent environmental issues of species extinction and global warming .
for more information , check out the esc statement .
the interior department yesterday finalized rules changing the way it administers the endangered species act , enabling other government agencies to decide on their own whether a project would harm an imperiled species without an independent scientific review .
interior secretary dirk kempthorne called the move " a clarification " he considered essential in order to narrow the law 's reach .
" the rule strengthens the regulations so the government can focus on protecting endangered species as it strives to rebuild the american economy , " kempthorne said , adding that agencies can bypass a review by either the fish and wildlife service or the national oceanic and atmospheric administration only " in specific and limited instances where an action is not anticipated to harass , harm or kill a protected species . " .
dale hall , who directs the fish and wildlife service , said the change did not mean that agencies could build dams , roads or other projects without taking into account the consequences .
" the agency still has the full responsibility to make that decision and to defend that decision , " hall said , noting that the loss of an imperiled species , known as " take , " carries legal penalties .
" they 're still liable for take , if take occurs . " .
hall said he was initially concerned about " the compressed time frame " in which the agency pushed through the rule change , which was unveiled in august , but he added that he did n't " see any harm " in kempthorne 's final decision .
interior went ahead with the rule change one day after the environmental protection agency dropped two other controversial rules changes , saying they had come along too late in president bush 's term. white house spokesman tony fratto said the reason was that the administration had " publicly and clearly stated our intention " to enact the endangered species measure well before a self-imposed deadline on eleventh-hour rule changes .
the agency received nearly 235,000 comments on the endangered species proposal , at least 208,000 of which were form letters decrying the rule .
congressional democrats and environmentalists sharply criticized the administration for the interior department action .
" as the bush administration fades off into the sunset , it continues to take brazen pot shots at everything in sight , including america 's landmark conservation law , the endangered species act , " said house resources committee chairman nick j. rahall ii ( d-w.va. ) , who said he would introduce legislation seeking to overturn the rule next year .
separately yesterday , interior issued a finding limiting the protections that could be invoked to protect polar bears , which were listed as a threatened species this year , on the grounds that the bears are already protected under the marine mammals protection act .
the finding means that the bears ' protected status could not be used to block activities such as oil and gas development outside their alaska habitat .
" we do not believe the science is there to make the causal link between activities in the lower 48 to the take of a polar bear , " kempthorne said .
" to finally admit that the science compels the listing of the polar bear as threatened due to global warming , but then deny it the protections the endangered species act should provide , is nothing other than irresponsible and shameful , " said jamie rappaport clark , executive vice president of the advocacy group defenders of wildlife , adding that her group would sue to overturn the rule .
updated 8 : 41 p . m . est , tue march 3 , 2009 .
obama overturns bush endangered species rule .
president obama on tuesday overturned a last - minute bush administration regulation that many environmentalists claim weakened the endangered species act .
the regulation , issued a few weeks before george w . bush left office , made it easier for federal agencies to skip consultations with government scientists before launching projects that could affect endangered wildlife .
by overturning the regulation , obama said during an enthusiastic reception at the interior department , he had restored "the scientific process to its rightful place at the heart of the endangered species act , a process undermined by past administrations . " .
under the bush administration rule , there was no need for a federal agency to consult with the u . s . fish and wildlife service or the national marine fisheries services if that agency determined that no harm would come to an endangered species as a result of its project .
but the determination of what "no harm" meant rested with agency bureaucrats instead of scientists .
obama issued a memorandum that effectively suspends the regulation while ordering a review to determine whether it promotes "the purposes of the [ endangered species act ] . " .
"the work of scientists and experts in my administration , including right here in the interior department , will be respected , " obama said .
"for more than three decades , the endangered species act has successfully protected our nation's most threatened wildlife , and we should be looking for ways to improve it , not weaken it . " .
environmental groups were quick to praise obama's action .
"president obama's announcement will allow [ the endangered species act ] to do what it was intended : protect our nation's endangered plants and animals , " said andrew wetzler , director of the natural resources defense council's endangered species program .
"reversing the bush administration's midnight action will restore protections for our last wild places and species . " .
obama also helped celebrate the 160th anniversary of the interior department on tuesday .
"throughout our history , there's been a tension between those who've sought to conserve our natural resources for the benefit of future generations and those who have sought to profit from these resources , " he told department employees .
"but i'm here to tell you this is a false choice .
with smart , sustainable policies , we can grow our economy today and preserve the environment for ourselves , our children and our grandchildren . " .
interior secretary dirk kempthorne announced major changes thursday to the endangered species act , causing environmental groups to charge that the " midnight rules " set to go into effect before president-elect barack obama takes office are intended to eviscerate the nation 's premier wildlife-protection law .
the regulations eliminate a requirement that federal agencies seek review by government scientists before approving logging , mining and construction projects to make sure the activities do n't endanger rare animals and plants .
in addition , the regulations say the law could not be used to protect polar bears , walrus , mountain frogs and other species vulnerable to the effects of global warming .
" the bush administration is using this to go after our most imperiled wildlife and kick them when they are down , " said janette brimmer , an attorney with earthjustice , an environmental group .
" the act is our nation 's most important law for protecting wildlife like wolves , grizzlies , salmon and lynx . " .
reid cherlin , a spokesman for the obama-biden transition team , said , " president-elect obama will review all 11th-hour regulations and will address them once he takes office . " .
obama has said he does not favor changing the endangered species act .
kempthorne , at a news conference in washington , said that he knew changes to the act would evoke controversy but that he is certain the new rules would clear up confusion over the law that had existed for years .
" nothing in the regulation relieves a federal agency of its responsibilities to ensure that species are not harmed , " he said .
law covers 1,400 species .
the law protects 1,400 species .
in the last eight years , there has been a slowdown in adding new plants and animals , building a backlog of hundreds of species waiting for scientific review and approval , including california 's furry pacific fisher and sierra nevada yellow-legged frog .
the interior department proposed the new regulations in may and since has received nearly 300,000 comments , the vast majority opposing the changes .
hours after thursday 's announcement , three environmental groups , greenpeace , defenders of wildlife and center for biological diversity , filed a lawsuit in u.s. district court in san francisco seeking to halt regulations that they say are inconsistent with the act .
the regulations do n't require federal agencies to seek consultation with u.s. fish and wildlife service and national marine fisheries service before approving projects , the lawsuit said .
in congress , rep. edward markey , d-mass. , called a hearing to review the regulations and said members would work to restore the act. rep. nick rahall , d-w.va. , said members may try to eliminate the regulations by using a special congressional act that allows the review of newly adopted administrative rules .
part of the new regulations prohibit regulators from taking into account the effects of greenhouse gases on habitats and on species .
kempthorne said his legal advisers concluded that considering global warming a threat to the survival of the polar bear would require tracking emissions to a particular factory and determining how that would melt arctic ice and harm the bear .
" that 's completely wrong , and they 're just making that up , " said attorney kassie siegel of the center for biological diversity , which is suing the federal government in an attempt to protect polar bears .
federal agencies are supposed to look at sources of greenhouse gases from projects they approve , then analyze ways to reduce those emissions , siegel said .
" there 's no requirement to trace any molecule of ddt to the thinning of bald eagle eggs just as there 's no requirement to trace any molecule of carbon dioxide to the death of any particular polar bear , " she said .
in california , the requirement to consult with government biologists before construction projects is particularly crucial , said mark rockwell , california state representative of the endangered species coalition , an alliance of 50 environmental , business , hunting and fish and religious groups in the state .
the u.s. forest service approves logging plans that might affect coastal coho salmon and steelhead , marbled murrelets and pacific fishers on national forests .
the u.s. army corps of engineers give permits for filling wetlands .
without the requirement , there 's no incentive for the agencies to seek consultation and a biological opinion , rockwell said .
for example , the bureau of reclamation was forced by the current requirement to seek biological opinions on whether the amount of water being diverted from the southern part of the sacramento-san joaquin river delta would hurt the delta smelt or harm chinook salmon .
protections found lacking .
environmental groups challenged opinions that water flows for the fish were adequate , and won decisions agreeing that the protections were indeed lacking in the plans .
" it was the biological opinions that led to the challenges , " rockwell said .
" if you do n't have an opinion , you have nothing to challenge . " .
under the new regulations , the federal agencies would have the discretion of deciding whether or not to ask for a consultation and opinion , rockwell said .
april 27 , 2009 	 .
biologists call on obama administration to overturn bush rules that cut science out of endangered species legislation .
interior and commerce secretaries must act by may 9 .
more than 1 , 300 federal and independent scientists with biological expertise and three leading scientific societies today called on the interior and commerce departments to overturn rule changes made in january that weaken the scientific foundation of the endangered species act .
in a letter , the scientists urged the department secretaries to rescind changes to endangered species act regulations that allow federal agencies to decide for themselves if their own projects--such as roads , dams and mines--would threaten imperiled species .
previously , federal agencies were required to consult with biologists at the u . s . fish and wildlife service or national marine fisheries service before undertaking or permitting projects .
"many federal agencies do not have the scientific expertise to determine the consequences of federal projects on endangered species and may have vested interests in the implementation of a project , " said stuart pimm , doris duke professor of conservation ecology at duke university , who helped organize the scientists' letter .
"the new rules exclude expert scientists--who for decades have provided impartial review and critical analysis--from the process . " .
the ornithological council , society for conservation biology and the wildlife society , which collectively represent more than 20 , 000 scientists , also sent a letter today asking the interior and commerce secretaries to rescind the changes and make other improvements to the scientific base of the endangered species act .
"as the threats we face continue to evolve , federal scientists must be able to evaluate their consequences for imperiled species .
putting boundaries on the science that informs the endangered species act fundamentally undermines the ability of science and scientists to protect our nation's biodiversity , " said alan thornhill , an ecologist and executive director of the society for conservation biology .
"politics plays a huge role in such decisions , " said michael hutchins , executive director and ceo of the wildlife society .
"expert review and oversight are critical . " .
the rules generated concern when they were hastily pushed through at the end of the last administration with little discussion or debate .
the obama administration has addressed the rule change , but has not formally overturned it .
on march 3 , president obama directed the commerce and interior departments to review it , stating that "we should be looking at ways to strengthen [ the endangered species act ] --not weaken it . " .
president obama also directed federal agencies to continue consulting with scientists on projects that might harm endangered species .
congress also has taken steps to address the problem .
a provision in an omnibus spending bill signed by president obama on march 11 allows interior secretary ken salazar and commerce secretary gary locke to rescind the rule changes within 60 days .
secretary salazar has said publicly that he is concerned about the rule changes , but has not indicated that he will act by the may 9 deadline .
on friday , it was reported that the interior department sent a rule to the white house office of management and budget that addresses the interagency review process but not other parts of the rules that the scientists want repealed , particularly the limits on what kinds of information can be used in determining how to protect the polar bear .
the content of the rule was not released .
the two letters also urge the administration to take a more comprehensive look at how science can better inform decision - making under the endangered species act .
according to the scientists , other recent changes create unrealistic deadlines for scientific consultations and limit the types of information federal scientists can consider when evaluating federal projects .
"these changes chop down the role of science in governmental decision - making , leaving less than a stump behind .
the loss of science translates into real loss of biodiversity , " said francesca grifo , a biodiversity expert and director of the union of concerned scientists' scientific integrity program .
"the new rules weaken the scientific foundation of the endangered species act and make it easier to base decisions on politics instead of science .
in giving the departments the authority to roll back these rules , congress has given the american people a gift , and the department secretaries need to open it . " .
the bush administration issued two late-term regulations on thursday that environmentalists say weaken federal protection for endangered species but that interior department officials defended as blocking a " back-door " attempt to regulate emissions that contribute to global warming .
conservation groups sued to block the new rules , reigniting a fight over so-called midnight regulation that had seemed to die down a day earlier when the administration declined to impose looser air pollution rules that environmentalists had feared .
previously , federal agencies were required to consult with scientists who specialized in particular species before proceeding with a project like a road or dam .
the project could not go forward unless the specialist certified that no harm would come to endangered plants or wildlife .
the rules announced thursday would allow federal agencies to bypass those scientists in some cases if the agencies determined that the endangered species would not be harmed .
the revision was finalized after four months of deliberation and over the objections of what officials said were the bulk of nearly 235,000 public comments on the change .
the updated rules also bar agencies from stopping a project because its emissions might contribute to global warming .
opponents call the change particularly objectionable for the polar bear , which has seen its habitat shrink as arctic ice caps melt .
the government declared polar bears a threatened species this year .
interior secretary dirk kempthorne called the rule changes " narrow " and a " common-sense " approach to species protection .
he stressed that agencies could still consult with species scientists if they chose , and he reiterated his belief that climate change regulation is a " wholly inappropriate use of the endangered species act . " .
kempthorne acknowledged internal debate over the changes , but he and other administration officials said they tweaked the rule in response to public comments .
environmental groups panned them anyway .
janette brimmer , an attorney with earthjustice , said the administration was " using global warming as a stalking horse to undo species protections on a broad scale . " .
andrew wetzler , director of the natural resources defense council 's endangered species program , was blunt .
" we will see them in court . " .
environmentalists have tussled with the administration in its waning days over oil and gas drilling leases near national parks and oil shale development across the western u.s .
they cheered wednesday , however , when the environmental protection agency said it would not revise two air pollution standards .
white house officials say they 've worked hard to minimize the kind of end-of-term rulemaking that president bill clinton engaged in heavily .
many of the late rules could be difficult for president-elect barack obama to overturn without in a lengthy process , though a little-used law could allow congress to void them .
the house select committee on energy independence and global warming held a hearing on thursday into bush 's late energy and environmental rulemaking .
committee chairman rep. edward markey ( d-mass. ) said the rules issued thursday showed the administration was " determined to use every last minute in office to wreak as much havoc as possible on our nation . " .
kempthorne , for his part , sounded keenly aware of timing issues in a conference call with reporters , when he noted he had 39 days left in office .
asked if that gave him pause for issuing new rules , he replied .
" do you think eli manning should have left the field five minutes before the end of the last super bowl ? " .
april 28 , 2009 	 .
interior , commerce departments overturn rule that cut science out of endangered species act .
statement by francesca grifo .
today , interior secretary ken salazar rescinded eleventh - hour bush administration changes to endangered species act regulations that allowed federal agencies to decide for themselves if their own projects--such as roads and dams--would threaten imperiled species .
federal agencies again will be required to consult with expert biologists at the u . s . fish and wildlife service or national marine fisheries service before undertaking or permitting new projects .
the rule change was just one of several controversial bush administration actions that undermined the scientific foundation of the endangered species act , according to the union of concerned scientists ( ucs ) .
in a related story , 1 , 300 biologists and three scientific societies representing some 20 , 000 scientists sent separate letters last friday to the interior and commerce departments urging them to overturn the last - minute bush rule changes .
below is a statement by francesca grifo , director of ucs's scientific integrity program .
"several last - minute bush administration regulatory changes have undermined the scientific foundation of the endangered species act , and today the obama administration has begun to repair the damage .
the message from tens of thousands of scientists around the country is clear : these unwarranted changes fundamentally undermine our ability to protect imperiled plants and animals .
"today , the obama administration restored critical checks and balances to protect our nation's biodiversity .
interior secretary salazar's decision is a long - awaited first step .
but there is much more to be done .
the obama administration must thoroughly review how science is used to ensure that our nation's imperiled species have a chance to survive--and thrive . " .
the us interior and commerce departments reported dec. 11 final proposed changes to the endangered species act , which interior secretary dirk a. kempthorne said were not as extensive as originally planned .
" the rule strengthens the regulations so the government can focus on protecting endangered species as it strives to rebuild the american economy , " kempthorne said .
" it has been revised since it was proposed in august because the public made suggestions we could use to improve it , " he said .
the proposed changes are scheduled to appear in the dec. 12 federal register .
" what we are doing is clarifying the threshold for consultation to occur .
if science can not draw a direct causal link between an action and an effect on a listed species , as is currently the case for global processes like climate change , than consultation under the esa is not necessary , " kempthorne maintained .
congressional critics and environmental organizations immediately criticized the proposal .
" the bush administration appears to be determined to use every last minute in office to wreak as much havoc as possible on our nation , " said edward j. markey ( d-mass. ) , chairman of the house select committee on energy independence and global warming .
" today 's announcement that they will be removing fish and wildlife experts from key decisions to protect the safety of iconic animals like the polar bear from global warming 's effects is absurd and a recipe for disaster , " markey said .
andrew wetzler , director of the natural resources defense council 's endangered species program , commented, .
" this administration has rejected anything with a whiff of science , so before skulking out the back door they are going after rules that require [ us ] fish and wildlife service scientists to prevent harm to our last wild animals and places .
despite today 's feel-good statements , we remain convinced that these changes are illegal .
we will look at the final language when it is published tomorrow , but i think we will see them in court . " .
scope of exceptions .
but kempthorne noted that federal agencies would be required to follow existing consultation procedures except in specific , limited instances where a proposed action is not expected to have adverse impacts on any member of an esa-listed species and would satisfy one of the following conditions .
it must be wholly beneficial , have no effect on a listed species or its critical habitat , have effects which could not be measured or detected in a manner that permits meaningful evaluation , or it must be the result of global processes that can not be reliably predicted or measured on the scale of the species ' current range .
agencies still would be able to voluntarily engage in the consultation process , the secretary emphasized .
he said the final proposed regulations contain fewer opportunities for agencies to proceed without consultation than what was originally envisioned .
nothing in the proposals requires that a federal agency bypass consultation , nor does it preclude any federal agency from seeking the expertise of the fish and wildlife service and the national marine fisheries service or from taking advantage of expertise that may be available from state and local agencies , universities , nongovernment organizations , or other sources , according to kempthorne .
any federal agency may avail itself of expertise offered by fws and nmfs in exactly the same manner as under current regulations if it determines it has any limitations to make determinations under the esa or believes that it does not have the scientific expertise to make an accurate assessment of a project 's impacts on listed species and critical habitat , he said .
moreover , nothing in the proposals relieves an agency of its responsibilities to ensure that listed species are not harmed during completion of a federal action , regardless of whether consultation occurs or not , kempthorne said .
in cases where an action agency determines that consultation is not required and harm to a listed species results , full civil and criminal penalties , as laid out by other sections of the esa , remain in effect , he indicated .
obama reverses bush on species protection measure .
march 04 , 2009 .
in a move that will subject a number of government projects to enhanced environmental and scientific scrutiny , president obama is restoring a requirement that u . s . agencies consult with independent federal experts to determine whether their actions might harm threatened and endangered species .
the presidential memorandum issued yesterday , which marks yet another reversal of former president george w . bush's environmental legacy , will revive a decades - old practice under the endangered species act that calls for agencies to consult with either the fish and wildlife service or the national oceanic and atmospheric administration on whether their projects could affect imperiled species .
on dec . 16 , the bush administration allowed agencies to waive such reviews if they decided , on their own , that the actions would not harm vulnerable plants and animals .
obama , who visited the interior department to commemorate its 160th anniversary , said he had instructed interior and commerce department officials to review the bush rules .
in the meantime , according to the memorandum , officials should "follow the prior longstanding consultation and concurrence practices" that call for independent reviews .
"the work of scientists and experts in my administration , including here at the interior department , will be respected , " obama said .
"with smart , sustainable policies , we can grow our economy today and preserve the environment . " .
environmentalists and scientists welcomed the move , but business officials said it could delay federally funded projects that could help revive the nation's economy : all of them agreed it would prompt a second look at several initiatives adopted by the bush administration in its final months in office .
earthjustice lawyer janette brimmer , whose group had challenged the bush rule in federal district court in california , said she expected that the new administration would reexamine two pending projects : a bureau of land management plan for overseeing oregon's forests , which was finalized on dec . 30 and could affect protected species such as the northern spotted owl ; and construction of the white pine coal - fired power plant in nevada .
"i think the obama administration now is going to take a step back on these projects .
it needs to bring science back into the equation , " brimmer said , adding that her group will not drop its lawsuit until it can assess how the new policy is working .
francesca grifo of the union of concerned scientists , an activist group , said the switch would help guard against the potential conflicts of interest and lack of expertise that could color decision - making by any agency hoping to press ahead with a particular project .
"after years of scientific scandal , the interior department and its partner agencies need desperately to regain credibility by making decisions with honesty , clarity and transparency , " grifo said .
but william l . kovacs , the u . s . chamber of commerce's vice president of environment , technology and regulatory affairs , said that reviving another layer of review "will result in even greater delays to projects - - including stimulus - backed , job - creating projects - - as agencies now grapple with the prospect of lengthy interagency consultations to determine , for instance , if a bridge project in florida contributes to the melting of arctic ice .
this is such a departure from the spirit and the letter of the endangered species act that we wonder if the law's drafters would even recognize it today . " .
the latest policy shift follows several other administration actions revamping environmental policies , including a reexamination of fuel economy standards and offshore oil drilling ; a new review of whether to grant california and other states the right to regulate greenhouse - gas emissions from vehicles ; and the endorsement of a new international treaty negotiation on global mercury emissions .
house natural resources committee chairman nick j . rahall ii ( d - w . va . ) , who had been seeking to overturn bush's endangered species rule through legislation , called the announcement "one more indication that the new administration truly represents change for the better and is committed to the protection of our natural resources and our environment . " .
officials said the move is unlikely to trigger broad use of the endangered species act to regulate greenhouse - gas emissions .
while the bush rule specifically prohibited endangered species consultations on the basis of "global processes" such as climate change , an interior official speaking on the condition of anonymity said that under the new policy , such a review would be triggered only if scientific evidence suggested "a causal connection" between emissions from a federal project and its effect on an imperiled species or an identifiable part of its habitat .
when planning to widen interstate 90 through snoqualmie pass , state transportation brass , federal agencies and greens wisely opted to cut down on road ( and people ) kill , and to give peace a chance .
the result will be a series of wildlife overpasses and underpasses , and efforts to make gold creek a healthy home to the endangered bull trout .
the unspoken trade-off : no lawsuits will hold up or raise costs on work that benefits the economy , and eases the drive to and from eastern washington .
before leaving the political stage , the bush administration aims to kiss off this kind of modest use of intelligence .
it is , said rep. jay inslee , d-wash. , the bushies ' " last sour note . " .
using the christmas season for cover , the interior department on thursday issued " revised " regulations designed to shield federal projects from review under the endangered species act .
" i 've been waiting and holding my breath for one last awful thing ( bush ) would do to be remembered by , and he has done it , " said rep. jim mcdermott , d-wash .
the administration ignored comments from 300,000 citizens and adopted a policy that would allow federal agencies to ignore one of the nation 's basic environmental laws .
it would eliminate some requirements for independent review by scientists -- notably from the u.s. fish and wildlife service and national marine fisheries service -- as agencies plan projects involving timber sales , road construction and oil leases .
new rules would also prohibit federal agencies from assessing how a proposed project would add to global warming or jeopardize species habitat .
" nothing in this regulation relieves a federal agency of its responsibilities to ensure that species are not harmed , " interior secretary dirk kempthorne told reporters .
huh ?
" if this rule had been implemented in years past , highway builders could have done what they wanted , without talking to the fish and wildlife service .
we would probably not be seeing the improvements on i-90 , " said rick mcguire of the alpine lakes protection society .
" the i-90 corridor has been a berlin wall between the northern cascades and southern cascades .
if you do n't make the means to cross a road like this , it 's bad for wildlife .
and it 's bad for people who hit wildlife . " .
inslee noted the administration 's recent two-step maneuver in the chukchi sea off the north coast of alaska .
the fish and wildlife service formally listed the polar bear under the endangered species act , due to the threat from global warming .
ignoring the listing , the feds ' minerals management service proceeded to sell oil leases where the bears live .
the bush administration finalized a retroactive justification on thursday .
it created a " special rule " for polar bears , allowing oil and gas drilling , as long as oil companies obey the marine mammal protection act .
" polar bears do n't need a listing .
they need ice , " said inslee .
inslee noted the role of the late sen. henry jackson , d-wash. , who backed oil development in the arctic and helped write the endangered species act .
" senator jackson and others had the foresight and intelligence to say : let us allow the expertise of government scientists to be tapped before decisions are made , " inslee added .
" that 's what the consultation process does .
it has been used to good effect in our state . " .
critics of the endangered species act often substitute anecdote for fact .
they 've argued that consultation with government scientists means holdups and more work .
in a filing with the interior department , however , the natural resources defense council noted that no evidence of delay and cost was produced to support relaxing the law .
quite the contrary .
the new policy nixes informal consultation between agencies intended to determine whether a project needs more formal and detailed environmental review .
the likely result will be " erroneous findings " by agencies , argued the nrdc .
what 's the consequence ?
project opponents will get grounds to sue .
" we will look at the final ( rule ) language when it is published tomorrow , but i think we will see them in court , " said andrew welzler of the nrdc .
putting teeth back in the endangered species act , and reversing the new rule , presents a tricky , time-consuming task for the obama administration .
the makeup of obama 's environmental team has surfaced in recent days .
it is urban , and largely eastern .
the incoming environmental protection agency boss , lisa jackson , has worked as new jersey 's environmental commissioner .
soon-to-be senior white house aide carol browner , an al gore protagonist , is from florida .
obama brass would be well advised to turn for help to the pacific northwest and mountain west .
our government leaders have dealt with tricky issues involving endangered species act listings of puget sound salmon runs and orcas .
east coast environmentalists , in high government posts , proved tone-deaf and clumsy when dealing with endangered species issues in the clinton and carter administrations .
what 's needed now is political savvy , plus what george w. bush , in his 2000 campaign , described as " sound science . " .
p-i columnist joel connelly can be reached at 206-448-8160 or joelconnelly @ seattlepi.com .
follow politics on the p-i 's blog at blog.seattlepi.com/seattlepolitics .
obama administration flips bush endangered species ruling .
04 / 28 / 09 07 : 35 pm et .
federal agencies again will have to consult with government wildlife experts before taking actions that could have an impact on threatened or endangered species .
the obama administration said tuesday it was overturning a rule change made in the final weeks of the bush presidency .
officials at the interior and commerce departments said they have reimposed the consultation requirement that assured the government's top biologists involved in species protection will have a say in federal action that could harm plants , animals and fish that are at risk of extinction .
such consultation had been required for more than two decades until the bush administration made it optional in rules issued last december , just weeks before the change in administrations .
environmentalists argued that the change severely reduced the protection afforded under the federal endangered species act .
"by rolling back this eleventh - hour regulation , we are ensuring that threatened and endangered species continue to receive the full protection of the law" and that top science will be the foundation of the decision making , said interior secretary ken salazar .
commerce secretary gary locke added : "our decision affirms the administration's commitment to using sound science to promote conservation and protect the environment . " .
agencies in the two department's share responsibility for managing and enforcing the endangered species act and employ the government's top scientists in species protection .
in march , president barack obama issued an executive order putting the bush rule change on hold .
congress followed by giving specific authorization for the interior and commerce departments to revoke the action , avoiding a long and complicated regulatory process .
environmentalists widely praised tuesday's action , but some expressed dismay that salazar didn't also rescind a rule that limits the protection to the polar bear , which last year was declared as "threatened" under the endangered species act because of disappearing arctic sea ice as a result of climate change .
the bush administration issued a rule that prohibits an agency from taking into account indirect adverse impacts on the polar bear from activities outside of the arctic region : for example carbon dioxide emissions that are linked to global warming and , therefore , the loss of arctic sea ice .
congress authorized that rule to be revoked as well , but the interior department said no decision had yet been made on the matter .
"from our perspective the job is half done , " said noah greenwald of the center for biological diversity , an advocacy group .
"the polar bear's arctic sea ice habitat is melting away .
if the ( bush ) special rule is not struck down the polar bear is likely to be the first large mammal to go extinct due to global warming in the united states . " .
the end of the long - standing requirement _ dating back to 1986 _ of interagency consultation with the interior and commerce agencies on endangered species protection produced a firestorm in both congress and within the environmental and conservation communities .
for years , agencies involved in thousands of federal activities _ from issuing clean air rules to approving highway or dam construction _ have had to consult not only their own experts but also biologists at the u . s . fish and wildlife service or the national oceanic and atmospheric administration to ensure the activities did not harm plants , animals or fish that are protected by the endangered species act .
developers and business groups argued that the consultation caused unneeded delays and increased the cost of projects .
the bush administration made the independent consultation optional , arguing that it was a minor shift in policy .
one impetus for the rule change was concern by the bush administration that the endangered species act might be used as a back door to regulate greenhouse gases as a way to combat climate change .
the interior department earlier had declared the polar bear a threatened species because of the loss of arctic sea ice , a change attributed to global warming .
salazar and lock said the two departments will jointly decide if any changes are needed to improve the interagency consultation procedures .
the fish and wildlife service , which is part of the interior department , has jurisdiction over plants and animals , while noaa , part of the commerce department , deals with fish species that are at risk of extinction .
just six weeks before president-elect barack obama takes office , the bush administration issued revised endangered species regulations thursday to reduce the input of federal scientists and to block the law from being used to fight global warming .
the changes , which will go into effect in about 30 days , were completed in just four months .
but they could take obama much longer to reverse .
they will eliminate some of the mandatory , independent reviews that government scientists have performed for 35 years on dams , power plants , timber sales and other projects , a step that developers and other federal agencies have blamed for delays and cost increases .
the rules also prohibit federal agencies from evaluating the effect on endangered species and the places they live from a project 's contribution to increased global warming .
interior department officials described the changes as " narrow , " but admitted that the regulations were controversial inside the agency .
environmentalists viewed them as eroding the protections for endangered species .
interior officials said federal agencies could still seek the expertise of federal wildlife biologists on a voluntary basis , and that other parts of the law will ensure that species are protected .
" nothing in this regulation relieves a federal agency of its responsibilities to ensure that species are not harmed , " said interior secretary dirk kempthorne in a conference call with reporters .
current rules require biologists in the fish and wildlife service and national marine fisheries service to sign off on projects even when it is determined that they are not likely to harm species .
the rule finalized thursday would do away with that requirement , reducing the number of consultations so that the government 's experts can focus on cases that pose the greatest harm to wildlife , officials said .
but environmentalists said that the rule changes would put decisions about endangered species into the hands of agencies with a vested interest in advancing a project and with little expertise about wildlife .
several environmental groups filed a lawsuit in federal court in san francisco hours after the rule 's announcement .
jamie rappaport clark , a former director of the fish and wildlife service and a vice president of defenders of wildlife , said thursday that the changes target the " absolute heart of the endangered species act . " .
clark told a house hearing on the bush administration 's last-minute environmental regulations that these changes remove " a system of checks and balances that provides an essential safety net for imperiled animals and plants . " .
between 1998 and 2002 , the fish and wildlife service conducted 300,000 consultations .
the national marine fisheries service , which evaluates projects affecting marine species , conducts about 1,300 reviews each year .
the reviews have helped safeguard protected species such as bald eagles , florida panthers and whooping cranes .
a federal government handbook from 1998 described the consultations as " some of the most valuable and powerful tools to conserve listed species . " .
the bush administration worked diligently to get the change in place before obama took over , corralling 15 experts in washington in october to sort through 250,000 written comments from the public on the revisions in 32 hours .
obama has said he would work to reverse the changes .
but because the rule takes effect before he is sworn in , he would have to restart the lengthy rulemaking process .
house natural resources committee chairman rep. nick rahall , d-w.va. , said he would seek to overturn the regulations using the congressional review act after consulting with other democratic leaders .
the rarely used law allows congress to review new federal regulations .
congress has opposed similar changes to the endangered species protections in the past .
in 2003 , the bush administration imposed similar rules that would have allowed agencies to approve new pesticides and wildfire reduction projects without seeking the opinion of government scientists .
the pesticide rule was later overturned in court .
the interior department , along with the forest service , is currently being sued over the rule governing wildfire prevention .
in 2005 , the house passed a bill that would have made similar changes to the endangered species act , but the bill died in the senate .
oklahoma sen. james inhofe , the leading republican on the senate environment and public works committee , said in a statement the new regulations were " common-sense changes to a law much overdue for reform . " .
there are a handful of other environmental regulations still pending before bush leaves office , including a rule to exempt large agricultural operations from reporting releases of ammonia and other hazardous air pollutants .
they must be finalized by dec. 19 in order for them go into effect before jan. 20 .
in a related development , the interior department also finalized thursday a special rule for the polar bear , a species that was listed as threatened in may because of global warming .
the rule would allow oil and gas exploration in areas where the bears live , as long as the companies comply with the marine mammal protection act .
obama administration overturns rule that weakened endangered species act .
april 28 , 2009 .
interior secretary ken salazar announced today that the obama administration will reverse an endangered species act ( esa ) regulation that allowed federal agencies to go ahead with actions that may impact endangered species without consulting with experts , essentially circumventing the role of conservation scientists in such decisions .
"by rolling back this eleventh - hour regulation , we are ensuring that threatened and endangered species continue to receive the full protection of the law" said salazar .
the change to the esa was made last december by the bush administration and drew heavy criticism from environmental and conservation groups .
at the time , during heavy campaigning , obama stated that he opposed the last minute rule changes with a spokesman stating : " as president , senator obama will fight to maintain the strong protections of the endangered species act and undo this proposal from president bush . " .
darin schroeder , vice president for conservation advocacy at the environmental organization , american bird conservancy , agreed with salazar " s decision .
" we are gratified secretary salazar and secretary locke acted to restore the endangered species act to its intended strength .
the consultation process is one of the cornerstones of the esa , and one of the key checks and balances that ensures protection for the 90 birds and 1 , 263 other animals and plants it covers . " .
another anticipated ruling regarding polar bears has not been announced yet .
while the bush administration found that melting ice in the arctic due to climate change was endangering polar bears , they ruled that the esa could not used to regulate carbon emissions in order to protect the polar bear .
salazar must make a judgment on this rule by may 9th .
" secretary salazar took an important step today toward restoring needed protections for endangered species , " said noah greenwald , biodiversity program director for the center for biological diversity .
" but he still needs to rescind the special rule for the polar bear , which amounts to a death sentence for the majestic bear because it exempts greenhouse gas emissions from regulation . " .
the bush administration on thursday eliminated 35-year-old regulations in the endangered species act that required an independent scientific review of proposed federal projects to determine whether they imperil protected plants and animals .
instead , federal agencies undertaking projects like road and power plant construction or oil and gas drilling will make their own assessment .
without the independent reviews , such projects could be accelerated .
as part of the changes announced by interior secretary dirk kempthorne in the final days of the bush administration , the department finalized an interim rule that allows oil and gas drilling in polar bear habitat off alaska 's coast .
the rule change is designed to prevent the endangered species act from being used to regulate greenhouse gas emissions , essentially making climate change policy .
kempthorne , who characterized the new rules as a common-sense streamlining of bureaucratic processes , acknowledged that there was disagreement within the department regarding the rules , which take effect in 30 days .
under current law , agencies must submit any plans that could harm species on the endangered list for review by scientists at the u.s. fish and wildlife service , which enforces the endangered species act .
the process has been criticized by home builders groups and the oil and gas industry for delaying costly projects .
the consultation requirement was intended as more than just a check and balance .
jamie rappaport clark , executive vice president of defenders of wildlife and director of fish and wildlife under president clinton , said the consultation process resolved the problem of " mission conflict " between agencies .
the department of defense , for example , might not understand why an endangered plant should be considered when expanding a bombing range .
" the problem is the agencies do n't always properly consider , understand or protect species in their habitat because they are focused on the pursuit of their primary mission , " clark said .
" it 's hard for the biologists to satisfy their responsibility to protect species if the agency perceives it affects their primary mission . " .
president-elect barack obama said he would reverse the rule changes , as have some members of congress .
but that requires a lengthy rule-making process .
in the house , members can invoke the rarely used congressional review act to overturn the regulations .
" these changes are going to result in more species being put in jeopardy , " clark said .
" but more importantly , we are not going to know what we do n't know anymore . " .
officials said agencies would still be held liable if they approved projects that harmed threatened or endangered species .
kempthorne also noted that any federal agency could choose to informally consult with the fish and wildlife service at any time .
h. dale hall , director of fish and wildlife , said he had concerns about how fast the estimated 235,000 public comments were processed .
staff assigned to the job spent eight hours a day tabulating the comments .
working under strict time restraints , agency employees had nine seconds to read each letter , according to one calculation .
officials said that more than 200,000 of the comments opposed the rule change .
attempts to revise the endangered species act have been rebuffed by congress in recent years .
sen. barbara boxer ( d-calif. ) said thursday 's actions were another assault on the law .
" these midnight regulations are part of a continuing effort by the bush administration to repeal our landmark environmental laws through the back door and weaken protections for our nation 's endangered species , " she said in a statement .
" i believe they are illegal , and if similar regulations had been in place , they would have undermined our ability to protect the bald eagle , the grizzly bear and the gray whale , " boxer said .
environmental groups , which took the administration to court to force it to list the polar bear , vowed to continue the legal battle .
three groups , the center for biological diversity , greenpeace and defenders of wildlife , filed suit in san francisco hours after the changes were announced , arguing that the regulations failed to follow the public review process .
" the bush administration has repackaged the same old lump of coal as a holiday present for the polar bear , and once again handed its friends in the oil industry a huge gift , " said kassie siegel , climate program director at the center for biological diversity and lead author of the 2005 petition to list polar bears .
" these regulations seem designed to drive the polar bear extinct . " .
the rule regarding polar bears comes seven months after that animal became the first to be placed on the endangered species list primarily because of global climate change .
the melting of sea ice is threatening the polar bear with extinction .
this summer , scores of polar bears were observed swimming in open seas , far from land or ice floes .
but kempthorne said that he would n't allow the 1973 law to be used as a " back door for implementing climate-change policy . " .
to that end , he clarified regulations addressing threats to polar bear habitat : greenhouse emissions from automobiles , power plants and other human activities .
the act requires federal agencies to designate habitat critical to the creature 's survival , then protect it by strict enforcement .
kempthorne said that according to his reading , court rulings require pinpointing a specific source of a threat to habitat -- something that he said was scientifically impossible .
that interpretation of the courts ' opinions gives the government few options to protect polar bear habitat .
president obama overturns endangered species rule bush instated .
former president bush had enacted legislation that could have put more animals in danger .
mar 4 , 2009 .
in a move that could anger some people on the other side of the aisle , president obama overturned an administration regulation that could have possibly weakened the stability of the endangered species act .
before former president george w . bush left office , he passed legislation that would have allowed federal agencies to skip consultations before launching projects that could affect endangered wildlife .
this could have put more animals at risk , and while it would have eliminated a lot of red tape in the process , it could have been more risky to endangered animals than necessary .
the problem with the legislation by bush was that it was taking scientists out of the equation , and basically removing the most knowledgeable people from the equation .
it would have given a lot of additional power to federal agencies , but stripped a lot of the rights that the endangered species act gives to the animals which it seeks to protect .
while the act is not perfect in its implementation or enforcement , undermining by removing any "teeth" that it might have was a big step in the wrong direction .
president obama has already received immense support from environmentalists for this move , and by overturning something the bush administration put in place , he showed that he is also willing to step up to the plate on issues such as these .
by flat out declaring that it is necessary to ensure that no harm will come to endangered species as the result of new projects , it gives the endangered species act more strength , and does a lot to further the cause of environmentalists looking to protect these animals .
with scientists being put back into the equation , it gives a lot of hope that the threatened wildlife will stand a better chance at surviving over the long term .
it was a questionable move when bush made the move to approve the last - minute legislation during his second term , and while there were a lot of objections , nothing could really be done at the time .
with an eye toward the future , president obama made a really smart decision by bringing scientists back into the endangered species fold , and surely helped to save a number of animals that could have otherwise been put at risk .
in a move environmental groups says strikes at the heart of the endangered species act , the bush administration on thursday announced a new rule that would let federal agencies decide on their own whether their projects harm endangered species , instead of requiring them in many cases to get a second opinion from federal wildlife experts .
biologists call on obama administration to overturn bush rules that cut science out of endangered species decisions .
interior and commerce secretaries must act by may 9 .
washington - april 27 - .
more than 1 , 300 federal and independent scientists with biological expertise and three leading scientific societies today called on the interior and commerce departments to overturn rule changes made in january that weaken the scientific foundation of the endangered species act .
in a letter , the scientists urged the department secretaries to rescind changes to endangered species act regulations that allow federal agencies to decide for themselves if their own projects - - such as roads , dams and mines - - would threaten imperiled species .
previously , federal agencies were required to consult with biologists at the u . s . fish and wildlife service or national marine fisheries service before undertaking or permitting projects .
"many federal agencies do not have the scientific expertise to determine the consequences of federal projects on endangered species and may have vested interests in the implementation of a project , " said stuart pimm , doris duke professor of conservation ecology at duke university , who helped organize the scientists' letter .
"the new rules exclude expert scientists - - who for decades have provided impartial review and critical analysis - - from the process . " .
the ornithological council , society for conservation biology and the wildlife society , which collectively represent more than 20 , 000 scientists , also sent a letter today asking the interior and commerce secretaries to rescind the changes and make other improvements to the scientific base of the endangered species act .
"as the threats we face continue to evolve , federal scientists must be able to evaluate their consequences for imperiled species .
putting boundaries on the science that informs the endangered species act fundamentally undermines the ability of science and scientists to protect our nation's biodiversity , " said alan thornhill , an ecologist and executive director of the society for conservation biology .
"politics plays a huge role in such decisions , " said michael hutchins , executive director and ceo of the wildlife society .
"expert review and oversight are critical . " .
the rules generated concern when they were hastily pushed through at the end of the last administration with little discussion or debate .
the obama administration has addressed the rule change , but has not formally overturned it .
on march 3 , president obama directed the commerce and interior departments to review it , stating that "we should be looking at ways to strengthen [ the endangered species act ] - - not weaken it . " .
president obama also directed federal agencies to continue consulting with scientists on projects that might harm endangered species .
congress also has taken steps to address the problem .
a provision in an omnibus spending bill signed by president obama on march 11 allows interior secretary ken salazar and commerce secretary gary locke to rescind the rule changes within 60 days .
secretary salazar has said publicly that he is concerned about the rule changes , but has not indicated that he will act by the may 9 deadline .
on friday , it was reported that the interior department sent a rule to the white house office of management and budget that addresses the interagency review process but not other parts of the rules that the scientists want repealed , particularly the limits on what kinds of information can be used in determining how to protect the polar bear .
the content of the rule was not released .
the two letters also urge the administration to take a more comprehensive look at how science can better inform decision - making under the endangered species act .
according to the scientists , other recent changes create unrealistic deadlines for scientific consultations and limit the types of information federal scientists can consider when evaluating federal projects .
"these changes chop down the role of science in governmental decision - making , leaving less than a stump behind .
the loss of science translates into real loss of biodiversity , " said francesca grifo , a biodiversity expert and director of the union of concerned scientists' scientific integrity program .
"the new rules weaken the scientific foundation of the endangered species act and make it easier to base decisions on politics instead of science .
in giving the departments the authority to roll back these rules , congress has given the american people a gift , and the department secretaries need to open it . " .
