perennial party girl tara reid check herself into promise treatment center , she rep tell people .
'' we appreciate you respect to she and she family 's privacy at this time , '' the 33-year-old actress 's rep jack ketsoyan tell the magazine exclusively for they web site .
ketsoyan would not say what the '' american pie '' star be be treat for .
a friend of the actress tell people she go to promise on tuesday and that she friend and family support she decision .
reid launch a new fashion line call mantra in december .
lindsay lohan check into betty ford center .
may 03 , 2013 .
after skip out on enter a newport beach rehabilitation facility and face the prospect of arrest for violate she probation , lindsay lohan have check into the betty ford center to begin a 90 - day court - mandate stay in she reckless drive conviction .
lohan be previously at betty ford from september 2010 to january 2011 after a probation violation in a prior drunk driving case .
she latest stay at betty ford come after lohan rear - end a truck with she porsche on pacific coast highway on june 8 , and then lie to police , tell they she be not drive .
tara reid have enter a rehab program , the american pie star 's rep confirm to people and we weekly on friday .
the news come as a shock for everyone who just assume the seldom-seen actress have be hole up there for a while - at least when she be not tour u.s. frat house and/or tequila convention .
'' tara reid have check herself into promise treatment center , '' reid 's rep tell we .
'' we appreciate you respect to she and she family 's privacy at this time . '' .
no specific reason or addiction be give for she treatment .
when reid be not get attention for she sometimes fun/sometimes scary breast , the actress be get attention for she often-shambolic love of party .
reid 's messy lifestyle lead to she short live e ! series , taradise , that follow she to exotic locale where she would party .
somehow , reid manage to mess up the dream-job/easiest job ever by be too waste and out of control to film it .
'' it be a mess , '' she say of the show .
'' i do not know it be go to ruin my career .
people forget i have do , like , 20 movie .
i be not just a party girl '' .
while reid have be out of the cinematic spotlight , she recently launch a clothing line , mantra , and be date french fashion designer julien jarmoune .
in a interview in october , reid tell people she be a '' social drinker '' who be no longer tempt to fall back into she old habit .
'' no .
i have do it .
trust I .
i have do enough for a lifetime of everything .
i have have a great time .
i party .
i have fun .
i eat and drink whatever .
i date a million guy , but i be so happy with where i be at right now .
i do not need to do anything anymore . '' .
lindsay lohan check into rehab at betty ford center , rehire longtime lawyer shawn holley .
actress lindsay lohan finally check into court - mandate rehab at the betty ford center late thursday , after hire former lawyer shawn holley for help .
publish : thursday , may 2 , 2013 , 1 : 32 pm .
update : friday , may 3 , 2013 , 9 : 56 be .
lindsay lohan check into california betty ford center rehab facility late thursday , dodge arrest after whirlwind confusion surround the actress whereabouts , source tell the daily news .
it the same place the troubled starlet seek help in 2010 , where she get into a physical altercation with a staffer .
well , here 's something that we all know would happen eventually .
tara reid have check into promise treatment center , a prominent rehab clinic in lo angele .
in the late 90s reid be a pop bubblegum princess with a star role in the american pie franchise and a relationship with carson daly .
now she be know primarily for party far too hard and accidentally expose she naughty bit to the paparazzi .
it be too late for she to salvage a hollywood career , but at least she can keep she liver from shrivel into a little grey ball .
well , it be not even release yet , but apparently the positive buzz surround the trailer for terminator salvation be enough to warrant make a sequel .
mcg make the announcement in dubai over the weekend , state that the project be shoot for a 2011 release date .
now , i be as excite to see the new terminator movie as anybody , but be this really a good idea ?
what if the film be terrible and bomb at the box office ?
warner brother appear to be pretty damn confident about this one .
we will see what happen .
sadly last week we learn that ricky gervai would not be host the oscar .
this be a disappointing blow , but there be hope that chris rock , jon stewart or another favourtie host of recent year would get a chance to return .
sadly that be not the case .
instead hugh jackman will be host what will undoubtedly be the most bland and unfunny oscar night in recent memory .
seriously , jackman ?
why be he qualify to do this ?
they be not even try to find good people to host that show anymore .
lindsay lohan be mia after pretend to check into unlicensed calif . rehab center .
may 2 , 2013 | 5 : 03pm .
'' the '' mean girl '' star fool a l . a superior court judge , a santa monica prosecutor and apparently she own lawyer , by pretend to check into a rehabilitation facility , but chicken out when she get there .
prosecutor terry white tell the post a couple hour after a court hearing -- where lohan '' s lawyer mark heller say she be '' ensconce in the bosom '' of morningside recovery in newport beach -- '' i hear she '' s on she way to lax and get on a flight back to new york . '' .
unfortunately , morningside be unlicensed and photog snap she shopping for gadget at the very moment of she alleged check in .
lohan reportedly pull up to morningside in a suv but the vehicle leave without the actress ever get out .
'' the facility that lindsay be now in , that '' be not a licensed residential drug treatment center , '' california department of alcohol and drug program deputy director millicent tidwell tell the post .
it be about time , right ?
perpetual mess tara reid have finally decide to try and shed she drunk-girl image and have enter rehab .
'' tara reid have check herself into promise treatment center , '' she rep tell usmagazine.com .
'' we appreciate you respect to she and she family 's privacy at this time . '' .
the actress , who have not do anything to speak of in year , have be see , on so many occasion , waste out of she mind , unwittingly flash the paparazzi on the red carpet , look scary-skinny , and make really d-list personal appearance .
rehab have be call she name loud and clear for year .
best decision ever .
good luck , tara .
lindsay lohan check into rehab to begin 90 - day stint , lawyer say .
05 / 02 / 2013 .
lindsay lohan have check into a rehab facility to begin a 90 - day court - order stint , hand down as part of a sentence for a 2012 car crash case .
however , it remain unclear whether a judge will accept she placement at the center , whose location be not reveal publicly , the associated press report , quote she lawyer mark heller as say on may 2 that prosecutor have not approve it yet .
one of they tell the judge he need more time to investigate the place and the judge have give he a may 10 deadline , the news wire say .
tara reid finally check into rehab for undisclosed reason .
it be be a long time come , but tara reid have finally enter malibu promise treatment center on tuesday , she rep tell people.com .
the 33-year-old hard party actress finally decide to put a end to she drinking day and get help for she addiction , although she publicist refuse to disclose the real reason why reid check into rehab .
in a statement release to people , the '' american pie '' star 's rep jack ketsoyan confirm that she be at the same clinic where britney spear , ben affleck , charlie sheen , and lindsay lohan be previously treat , and plead for she and she family 's privacy at this time .
'' she friend and family be supportive of she decision , '' a friend of the actress say .
'' she check in herself - it be she decision . '' .
follow she breakthrough in 1999 's '' american pie , '' the actress have be better know for she partying habit and personal life rather than she movie , which be not that many in the first place .
three year ago , reid , who have launch a new fashion line call mantra in september , open up about she party girl image say it be not accurate and she entourage be a bad influence as well .
'' my picture be take only when i have a cup in my hand , '' she tell we weekly .
'' trust I , my body be tire .
i party hard .
but i think it be that the people i party with be not the best people . '' .
earlier this year , the star say she have turn a corner from be a hard-hitting drinker and be now a '' social drinker . '' .
when ask about the temptation to fall back into old habit she say she have enough fun and a great time to last she a lifetime .
'' i be so happy with where i be at right now .
i do not need to do anything anymore , '' she add .
besides '' american pie '' and she e ! reality show '' taradise , '' .
reid have have a recur role on '' scrub '' and star in '' van wilder '' and '' the big lebowski . '' .
lindsay lohan check into betty ford rehab -- where she know everyone .
update 05 / 03 / 2013 at 11 : 00 be edt .
originally publish 05 / 03 / 2013 at 10 : 20 be edt .
lindsay lohan check into the betty ford clinic in rancho mirage , calif . , on thursday night , for what be to be a three - month stay , she rep confirm to people .
and she show up -lsb- at morningside recovery -rsb- in the morning and hate it .
she be interested in go back to betty ford because she know everyone there . '' .
lohan , who have be in rehab a total of five time before this , be previously in betty ford in 2010 .
prior to this check - in to betty ford , which be first report by tmz . com , california prosecutor have say late thursday that the troubled actress , 26 , would be arrest if she continue to flout a court order to enter a rehab facility .
the beautiful party girl tara reid be take the time this season and check herself into rehab .
yesterday , on friday , reid apparently feel she need to be check in without really say why she be go in .
people be assume it be she party life that be bring she into rehab , or maybe she be just go crazy .
accord to various report tara reid 's representative jack ketsoyan leave a statement for the press , he say .
'' we appreciate you respect to she -lrb- tara reid -rrb- and she family 's privacy at this time . '' .
apparently the beautiful breast slippin babe 's problem be not get out much like spear problem be lay out in the media by the paparazzi and friend of the family .
of course who could forget the breast slip photo of tara reid on the red carpet where she have no idea she entire left boob be hang out as reporter snap ton of picture and be laugh at she -lrb- c -rrb- tpc .
lindsay lohan check into betty ford after flee other rehab facility .
may 3rd , 2013 2 : 00pm edt .
after leave rehab in newport beach , calif . , less than a hour after check in on thursday , lindsay lohan admit herself to the betty ford center , accord to tmz . com .
she lawyer negotiate with court official to change the venue of she 90 - day treatment , and the actress travel to nearby rancho mirage to register as a patient .
the actress spend time at the betty ford center in 2010 ; however , a member of the staff end up sue she for assault .
lindsay lohan check into rehab in newport beach ; investigation of facility pend .
may 2 , 2013 1 : 35 pm .
lindsay lohan have check into rehab in newport beach , calif . , and will remain there for the time be , pend a investigation of the facility she choose .
this despite the fact that , at the 11th hour , lohan bail on rehab in a new york facility that be approve by prosecutor and a judge and fly to l . a .
the good news be that tara reid be get help , accord to people magazine , for booze it up too much .
'' tara reid have check herself into promise treatment center .
we appreciate you respect to she and she family 's privacy at this time , '' the actress 's rep jack ketsoyan tell people .
the rep would not reveal what reid , 33 , be be treat for .
the even better news be that she boob be still big .
the bad news be that they be crooked , a bit off-tilt , if you will .
tara be not go to enjoy promise , there be no open bar , from what i understand .
do not forget to tip you waitress and waiter tara .
this be such a warm holiday story , i be about to melt .
i wonder what this mean for mtv 's beach house , where tara 's crooked boob be somewhat of a iconic symbol for the show ?
this could get interesting .
lindsay lohan check into rehab at betty ford center .
may 3 , 2013 at 7 : 31 be et .
update 5 : 40 p . m . et .
early friday morning , around 1 : 30 a . m . , the 26 - year - old actress check into betty ford center in rancho mirage , calif .
the notorious party girl , who make headline for she wild antic and plastic surgery-enhanced figure , have check into the promise treatment centre in malibu , she publicist confirm .
he do not say what reid be be treat for .
'' we appreciate you respect to she and she family 's privacy at this time , '' he say .
reid , 33 , be infamously photograph topless on the red carpet when she dress slip off , expose one of she breast .
reid have star in american pie , and have a guest role in television sitcom scrub .
she have admit several of she cosmetic surgery enhancement be botch .
she last month dump she manager in a attempt to clean up she image .
lindsay lohan check into unapproved rehab .
12 : 52 p . m . edt may 2 , 2013 .
she check in today .
lohan lawyer mark heller tell l . a . superior court judge jame r . dabney that lohan have check into a rehab , but prosecutor have not sign off on the facility , report ap .
she hop on a private jet wednesday night , head for morningside recovery in newport beach , calif . , a facility that do allow smoking .
cnn say lohan lawyer , mark heller , make the arrangement for lohan to check into morningside , but prosecutor have not approve that facility .
tara reid be seek help at rehabilitation facility in california .
the actress , who shoot to fame in 1999 movie american pie , decide to check in last week .
it be unclear what she be be treat for .
tara reid have check herself into the promise treatment center , ' she rep say in a statement .
we appreciate you respect to she and she family 's privacy at this time . ' .
tara , 33 , be previously engage to mtv host carson daly in 2001 .
but they call it off only month before they wedding .
she be currently date she business partner julien jarmoune , 34 .
lindsay lohan check into betty ford clinic , rehire attorney shawn holley .
may 3 , 2013 at 1 : 10pm .
the 26 - year trouble starlet narrowly avoid jail time by check into a second rehab center follow she quick exit from morningside recovery in newport beach , calif . on thursday , may 2 .
santa monica chief deputy city attorney terry white confirm to the the associate press that lohan have check into a approve rehab facility .
a source tell the associated press that the liz & dick star be now receive treatment at the betty ford center in rancho mirage , calif . where she have spend time before .
lohan cause a stir on thursday after she check out of morningside recovery after only a few minute , risk jail time with a probation violation .
now that lohan be back at betty ford center , she have also decide to rehire she former attorney shawn holley , who have be at she side during many of she courtroom appearance .
during lohan stay at the famed betty ford center in 2010 , lohan be accuse of attack a female staffer , but she be not charge .
another day in hollywood ; another star in rehab .
word come from people magazine and other celebrity news outlet that tara reid , 33 , who star in '' american pie '' and appear on u.s. tv show '' scrub , ' ' have enter the promise treatment center in malibu , california - the same facility that in the past have be the rehab facility of choice for many a hollywood star .
people say reid 's representative jack ketsoyan confirm the actress 's stay at promise .
lindsay lohan leave betty ford , check into malibu rehab .
first publish : june 13 , 2013 4 : 59 pm edt .
lindsay lohan have leave the betty ford center and be move to a rehab facility in malibu , calif . , access hollywood have confirm .
a spokesperson for the lo angele superior court confirm to access that a judge sign a order yesterday allow the transfer to cliffside , where she will continue with she 90 - day court - mandate rehab .
lohan '' s attorney , shawn holley , speak out about the move .
'' lindsay be grateful for the treatment she receive at the betty ford center .
she have complete she course of treatment there and look forward to continue she treatment and building on the foundation establish at betty ford , '' holley say in a statement to access .
the actress check into the betty ford center in may as part of a plea deal stem from she june 2012 car accident case .
lindsay lohan check out of betty ford treatment center and into malibu rehab .
post on thu jun 13 , 2013 08 : 45 be pdt .
lindsay lohan have check out of the betty ford treatment center in palm spring after complete a 30 - day program , but she not in the clear yet !
the mean girl star just check - in to the cliffside rehab center in malibu , where she will receive extended treatment , tmz report .
lawyer : lindsay lohan check into rehab facility .
may 2 , 2013 12 : 50 pm .
lindsay lohan have check into a rehab facility to comply with she sentence in a misdemeanor drive case , but she arrival there be not without drama .
my client be ensconce in the bosom of that facility right now , '' heller argue after a prosecutor object to lohan choice of rehab facility . '' .
she in rehab right now .
nothing bad be go to happen . '' .
white say he be completely blindside by lohan placement at morningside because heller have previously agree to send the actress to a different facility that have be vet .
a publicist say tara reid have check herself into rehab .
jack ketsoyan say friday that the '' american pie '' star go to the promise treatment center .
he do not specify what she be be treat for or when she enter the facility .
'' we appreciate you respect to she and she family 's privacy at this time , '' he say in a statement .
reid , 33 , earn a reputation as a drunken partier after famously be photograph on a red carpet with she breast expose , apparently unaware that the strap of she dress have fall off .
she film credit include '' van wilder '' and '' the big lebowski . '' .
she also host the short-lived , half-hour show '' taradise '' on e !
may 2 , 2013 , 1 : 12 pm .
lawyer : lindsay lohan check into rehab facility .
update 4 : 08 p . m . et .
lindsay lohan attorney say thursday the actress check into a southern california rehab facility that a state official say be unlicensed to perform the type of treatment a judge require she to receive .
mark jay heller tell a judge that lohan be settle in at morningside recovery , a treatment facility in newport beach .
my client be ensconce in the bosom of that facility right now , '' heller argue after a prosecutor object to lohan choice of rehab facility .
she in rehab right now .
nothing bad be go to happen . '' .
tmz report lohan be shop at a electronics store while she attorney be in court , and that she never enter morningside .
white say he be completely blindside by lohan placement at morningside because heller have previously agree to send the actress to a different facility that have be vet .
tara reid have seemingly spend the last decade out and about , but she latest destination hit much closer to home .
the american pie actress and velvet-rope fixture have check into promise treatment center in malibu , accord to she publicist , jack ketsoyan .
'' we appreciate you respect to she and she family 's privacy at this time , '' he say .
ketsoyan do not say what reid be be treat for and no other detail be forthcoming .
the move come as a surprise to reunion picture ' matthew o'connor , who coproduce reid last year on the made-for-tv horror flick viper .
'' tara be 100 percent professional , '' he tell e ! news .
'' she come in totally prepared every day . '' .
'' absolutely not , '' o'connor say when ask whether he have notice any warning sign that reid might have a problem .
'' she be better than fine - great . '' .
the 33-year-old reid , whose personal life and plastic-surgery travail have earn she far more headline than she career over the last few year , describe herself to people a few month ago as '' a social drinker . '' .
when ask whether she be still a party girl , the taradise star say , '' i have do enough of everything for a lifetime !
i party .
i have fun .
i eat and drink and date a million guy , but i be so happy with where i am right now .
i do not need to do any of that anymore . '' .
reid recently start she own clothing line , mantra , but she last notable act gig be a guest arc on scrub back in 2005 .
lindsay lohan check out of rehab ... ... ... to check into different rehab centre .
14 june 2013 .
the actress have leave the betty ford centre and go to malibu cliffside resort .
one place lindsay be find this particularly difficult though be at the betty ford centre , where the actress have just finish 30 day worth of treatment and have decide that the renowned facility there not be enough to keep she around for she court - order 90 - day stay in rehab , so she go elsewhere .
accord to a report from tmz publish this week -lrb- june 13 -rrb- , the mean girl actress have have enough of the palm spring rehab centre and have decide to spend the rest of she court - order stay in a rehab centre in malibu , name the cliffside .
lindsay have mess around in get to the new facility either and she be reportedly already a patient of the cliffside rehab centre , have check out of the betty ford centre on thursday -lrb- june 13 -rrb- this week and commit herself to cliffside almost immediately afterward .
tara reid have finally look in a mirror and get a glimpse of what be start back .
the actress who be know more for stagger around town than actually appear on the big screen , finally check into rehab .
in a statement from she people , it be confirm , '' tara reid have check herself into promise treatment center . '' .
promise be the home away from home for many star include britney spear , lindsay lohan and ben affleck .
tara be know for she role in american pie and van wilder .
she also star in the ill-fated party show , taradise , on the e ! network which premiere in september 2005 be cancel the follow month .
lindsay lohan check into rehab , check out two minute later .
may 2 , 2013 .
the judge should know to never ever trust a gnome with a law degree , because they be shifty shit and will lie to you with a twinkle in they eye .
that '' be exactly what lilo '' s lawyer mark heller do in court this morning .
he tell the judge that lilo be '' ensconce in the bosom of '' rehab this morning when she be really buy crap at fry '' s in fountain valley , can .
the nydn say that lilo eventually make it to morningside recovery in newport beach , but two minute after she walk through the door , she walk back through it and leave .
accord to the nydn , lilo show up to morningside at around noon , spend a couple of minute there , get spook by the paparazzi -lrb- uh huh -rrb- and then jump back into she suv .
well it be better late than never , tara .
the original trainwreck tara reid 's publicist confirm that the actress reid be admit into promise treatment center in lo angele , california .
'' we appreciate you respect to she and she family 's privacy at this time , '' the actress 's rep jack ketsoyan tell people magazine .
reid check herself in on tuesday , december 9 , 2008 .
she rep , however , decline to reveal reid 's reason for this seemingly abrupt decision .
reid 's , 33 , act ability have always be overshadow by she party girl ' reputation , and certainly set the bar for young starlet like lindsay lohan and paris hilton .
in a october interview with people , reid claim she be a social drinker ' and that she crazy past be far behind she .
i have do it .
trust I .
i have do enough for a lifetime ofeverything .
i have have a great time .
i party .
i have fun .
i eat and drink whatever .
i date a million guy , but i be so happy with where i be at right now .
i do not need to do anything anymore , ' she tell the magazine .
apparently , old habit die hard .
hopefully , promise will help she get back on track .
lawyer : lindsay lohan check into california rehab .
may 3 , 2013 | 8 : 20 be .
lindsay lohan '' s attorney say thursday the actress check into a california rehab facility , but a state official say it be unlicensed to perform the type of restrictive in - patient treatment a judge require the actress to receive in a misdemeanor drive case .
mark jay heller tell a judge that lohan be settle in at morningside recovery and argue that the actress should be allow to stay until a judge approve she placement .
'' my client be ensconce in the bosom of that facility right now , '' heller argue after a prosecutor object to lohan '' be choice of facility .
'' she '' s in rehab right now .
nothing bad be go to happen . '' .
celebrity website tmz report lohan be shop at a electronics store while she attorney be in court and that she never enter morningside .
superior court judge jame r . dabney agree in the hearing that lohan should remain at morningside , although the actress '' whereabouts be unknown .
talk to people magazine , jack ketsoyan , tara reid 's representative confirm the perennial party girl , have herself check into promise treatment centre .
ask to respect she and she family 's privacy , ketsoyan do not reveal what the star of '' american pie '' , '' van wilder '' and '' the big lebowski '' be be treat for .
reid who launch mantra , she new fashion line , be be support in she decision to enter rehab by all friend and family .
reid , 33 , with a reputation as one who drink and party long and hard , none more so when she be photograph on the red carpet with a breast expose , completely unaware the strap of she dress have fall off .
reid have also host taradise ' , the short-lived , half-hour show .
lindsay lohan check into rehab at betty ford center .
fri . , may . 3 , 2013 11 : 45 be pdt .
early friday morning , around 1 : 30 a . m . , the 26 - year - old actress check into betty ford center in rancho mirage , calif , .
the '' american pie '' actress have enter promise for undisclosed reason .
the actress , 33 , reportedly head to a malibu treatment facility on tuesday .
'' tara reid have check herself into promise treatment center .
we appreciate you respect to she and she family 's privacy at this time , '' the actress 's rep jack ketsoyan tell the mag .
although the rep would not reveal why she enter rehab , a source from the magazine say that it be she decision to get help .
reid become famous from she 1999 role in '' american pie '' and have she own reality show '' taradise '' in 2005 .
lindsay lohan check into court - order rehab .
may 02 , 2013 .
lindsay lohan lawyer say the actress check into rehab on thursday , but the facility have not be officially sanction by the court that order she to serve 90 day of treatment .
attorney mark jay heller tell la superior court judge jame r . dabney that lohan , 26 , have check into morningside recovery in newport beach , can , accord to the associated press .
oh , it be be so long since we be on the rehab beat !
after tell people in october that she do not '' need to do any of that anymore , '' '' american pie '' actress and former travel reporter tara reid check into promise treatment center on friday for a unspecified problem .
promise be a celeb favorite favor by britney spear and lindsay lohan -- it be also where mel gibson retire to after he 2006 accident and anti-semitic outburst .
not quite the christmas alternative we be look for ... .
get well soon , tara !
lindsay lohan rehire longtime lawyer shawn holley , head to rehab .
publish may 03 , 2013 .
it seem lindsay lohan have have enough of new york attorney mark jay heller .
the actress re - hire longtime attorney shawn holley to handle she case .
heller tell a judge during a hearing thursday morning that lohan have check in to the morningside recovery rehab facility , but the starlet leave it after a few minute .
the actress , however , have since check in to a different rehab but will not face a probation violation for leave another treatment facility after a few minute , a prosecutor say friday .
lohan make it to the new facility late thursday , tmz report .
white say he have receive confirmation that lohan have check in to a rehab facility and he be satisfy with she location .
he decline to say where lohan be receive treatment , but report soon surface that she be at the betty ford center in rancho mirage , calif .
lindsay never check into morningside but be back at betty ford .
the challenge now be to keep she there for the 90 day , '' the source tell we .
lohan have spend time at betty ford before .
she serve another mandatory rehab sentence at the treatment center , although she stay there be not without drama .
it be a party ... a rehab party !
it be one of the most exclusive rehab center , and tara reid be in .
hey , if you be go to rehab anyway , might as well get you ego stroke , too .
actress tara reid enter well-known malibu rehab center promise treatment center , reportedly of she own desire .
the specific reason behind she checking in to the facility be currently unknown to the public .
reid may be best know for she romance with mtv 's '' carson daly '' and she role in the '' american pie '' movie .
she former producer , chris weitz , will now be helm the next film installment of the '' twilight '' series .
lohan check into betty ford , rehire attorney .
after she abruptly leave a rehab facility in newport beach on thursday , lindsay lohan have check into the betty ford center in rancho mirage .
the actress , 26 , check in late thursday night , tmz report , barely make the deadline and dodge a arrest warrant .
tmz also report that lohan have re - hire attorney shawn holley .
lohan have check into morningside recovery center thursday morning , but then leave because '' she be not happy with the place , '' she father say .
report : red sox offer teixeira 200 million .
december 15th , 2008 , 7 : 35 be .
dan patrick report on he show on am 570 that the boston red sox have make first baseman mark teixeira a eight - year , 200 million offer .
if so , that blow the report eight - year , 160 million offer by the angel and the washington national out of the water .
patrick say monday morning : if it true they offer 200 million to a career . 290 hitter , will be interesting to see what the angel do . '' .
he then speculate the angel might turn they interest to manny ramirez .
the boston herald michael silverman write in he monday column the red sox offer be expect to be in the range of 145 million to 175 million , possibly more .
he also note that it be rare for boston to extend contract to player that go to they 36th birthday , with the exception of jason varitek just - expire deal and mike lowell contract .
teixeira will be 29 in april .
red sox to break bank for teixeira .
here a prediction : by the time this be over , win or lose , the red sox effectively will have make mark teixeira the largest contract offer in the history of you storied franchise .
when the sox want something enough , they make sure they get it .
in the case of teixeira , rest assure that the sox want he , no matter what game be be play by club official .
publicly and privately , the sox be say nothing about they interest in teixeira and play dumb every time he name come up .
it as sure a sign as any that they be prepare to go to extraordinary length .
what the red sox truly fear here be that the yankee can outbid they on teixeira , explain why the sox have fail to confirm any interest in the player at all .
with the possible exception of the new york met , who just exercise they contract option on first baseman carlo delgado , the yankee be the only team in baseball who could outbid the red sox for teixeira service .
the yankee could do it in a big way , too , give teixeira the kind of money that would put he in the cloud with alex rodriguez .
december 16 , 2008 .
herald : sox make offer to teixeira -lrb- 8 year ? -rrb- .
michael silverman report that the red sox .
have make a offer -lsb- for mark teixeira -rsb- , the biggest and longest yet for this current ownership group .
the offer be believe to be for at least eight year ... ... ...
teixeira be believe to be seek a average annual value of more than the 21 million that leave - hander cc sabathia be close to finalize with the new york yankee for the next seven year , and a lot closer to the 27 . 5 million that third baseman alex rodriguez be guarantee to make through 2017 with the yankee ... ... ... .
there be every indication that the red sox view teixiera in the same must - have light as they do matsuzaka .
mlb ian browne note the sticky situation that would arise with only two infield position for teixeira , mike lowell and kevin youkilis .
report : red sox make huge offer to teixeira .
on tuesday , 16 december 2008 13 : 45 .
the boston red sox have make the biggest offer in club history to mark teixeira .
the deal be say to be for 8 year and could be up to 180 million .
with the economy go down and ticket price freeze you have to wonder how the red sox plan on make this kind of committment for the long term .
do this mean they will not be able to get that big free agent next year or the year after that ?
the farm system have be good but it can not replace eveything and the sox be go to need some front line starter in the next few year .
we just have to say in theo we trust with this one .
thursday , december 11 , 2008 .
prediction : red sox will nab teixeira .
espn be report that the national have offer mark teixeira a 8 - year , 160 million contract .
at the same time , si . com be report that , '' the red sox be one of the most aggressive pursuer of teixeira , with several executive predict he may wind up there . '' .
the national '' offer set the bar for teixeira '' s service .
will the sox have to offer more money and / or year , or do playing in boston , for a win team , with very a passionate fan base mean more than play near he hometown in maryland ?
naturally scott bora will try to draw this out as long as he can .
however , teixeira have say he would like a resolution by christmas .
the question be , now that the angel have lose out on cc sabathia , will they be all the more motivated to retain teixeira ?
could they swoop in with a overwhelming offer ?
the la time say the angel be reluctant to go past seven year for teixeira .
and though they still need more pitching , the yankee can never be discount .
however , unfortunately for the angel , ken rosenthal of fox sport report that two major - league source say teixeira would prefer to be on the east coast for family reason .
with that in mind , the national and oriole be push hard to bring teixeira back to the maryland area .
last night , rosenthal report that , accord to a major - league source , the red sox be make progress in they quest to sign teixeira .
'' headway be be make earlier today , '' the source say .
and a rival general manager whose plan could be affect by the red sox '' s addition of teixeira also indicate that a deal be get closer .
teixeira be seek a 10 - year contract for at least 20 million per season .
the red sox preference would be to sign he to a deal between six and eight year .
the free - agent first baseman will be 29 on april 11 , coincide with the opening week of the 2009 season .
by all indication , he '' be a solid long - term investment .
eight year seem like a reasonable contract - length for a player of teixeira '' s age and ability .
but if the sox be push to 10 year , they would likely deem it acceptable .
they will do whatever it take to get it do .
teixeira be the big fish they '' be determine not to let slip away .
have never hit fewer than 26 homer in he six major - league season , teixeira certainly seem like a better long - term investment than sabathia .
pay astronomical money to a guy who play every day make more sense than guarantee it to one who play every five day , and who have weight issue .
question about he long term durability will continue to dog sabathia for at least the next couple of year .
teixeira remain the hottest commodity on the free agent market because he '' be be durable , injury - free , and highly productive .
over six full season , he career stat line look like this : . 290 average , . 919 op , 203 hr , 676 rbi .
last season , split between the brave and angel , teixeira hit . 308 , with 33 home run and 121 rbi .
he '' be proven himself in both league .
he be a all star , a two - time gold glove winner , and a two - time silver slugger winner .
without question , teixeira be a very solid hitter and a bona fide slugger ; he be one of just five player in major league history to hit at least 100 home run in he first three season .
for these reason , he have be describe as the '' apple of theo epstein '' s eye . '' .
this be why the red sox will not fail in they effort to bring home they single highest priority this offseason .
accord to this l.a. time story -lrb- which credit the team-owned flagship radio station -rrb- , the angel have make a eight-year offer to free agent first baseman mark teixeira .
the dollar amount be unspecified , but bill shaikin , the fine reporter who write the story , say the team be believe to have offer at least $ 160 million .
this , obviously , change the landscape of the teixeira sweepstakes , as the national ' best chance for landing he be to blow everyone else out of the water with they offer -- which , apparently , have not happen .
that be not to say the national can not sweeten they offer , but team official have indicate a unwillingness to get into a bidding war with higher-revenue team .
of course , we still have yet to hear from the red sox -- or even the yankee , as i hypothesize in today 's print edition .
in any case , it appear this thing be far from over .
red sox extend offer to teixeira .
boston reportedly look to ink free - agent slugger for eight year .
12 / 16 / 08 1 : 30 be est .
though the red sox continue to operate in intriguing secrecy when it come to they pursuit of free - agent slugger mark teixeira , it appear a offer have be transmit from the office of 4 yawkey way in boston to the corporation of power agent scott boras in southern california .
the boston herald report in its tuesday edition that the red sox have extend a offer for teixeira , believe to be the longest and richest in the seven - year history of the ownership group lead by john w . henry .
though the newspaper do cite its source , it state that the offer be believe to be for at least eight year . '' .
the red sox have a club policy of not comment on they negotiate stance with any free agent .
last week at the winter meeting , the washington national make teixeira a eight - year , 160 million offer .
angel general manager tony reagin recently confirm that he club have also make a eight - year offer .
the oriole , accord to report , have offer teixeira a seven - year deal worth between 140 million and 150 million .
as for the red sox , gm theo epstein have so much as utter teixeira name in any interview with media member this offseason .
that have always be the way epstein conduct he business , and it why you not hear any public comment from the red sox regard teixeira until he either sign with boston or go somewhere else .
be be aggressive , really aggressive on player that we like , '' epstein say last week .
the two biggest investment the red sox have make under current ownership ?
a 103 . 1 million sum - - include the 51 . 1 million post fee - - to daisuke matsuzaka over six season and a five - year , 70 million contract for j . d . draw .
though break the bank in free agency not typically the way the red sox go about they hot stove business , they feel that teixeira - - who will turn 29 in april - - could be the centerpiece of they lineup for the better part of a decade .
the switch - hitter do everything the red sox like , from get on base to hit for power to play terrific defense at first base .
epstein be ask at the winter meeting if the red sox could sign a marquee free agent this winter .
i think there a chance of it , '' he say .
there definitely a chance that we not .
i not tell you which -lsb- answer -rsb- , eight , 10 , 12 year from now would have be better for the organization .
but player that we like and think can help we , be go to try to sign to number that we think be reasonable and help we go forward and help we with we foundation .
if we get they , great .
if we not , then will move on . '' .
the yankee , boston top rival , have already make a loud statement this winter , agree to term with starter cc sabathia and a . j . burnett .
though epstein never like to act as if he be counteract the yankee , teixeira would clearly give boston lineup a more dynamic look .
there have be conflict report as to whether the yankee have interest in teixeira .
when boras speak at the winter meeting , he do sound as if he be in any rush to close the teixeira deal .
back in november , while attend a georgia tech football game , teixeira tell espn that he like to sign by christmas .
if the red sox be successful in landing teixeira , it will create a somewhat sticky situation .
the red sox have kevin youkilis at first base and mike lowell at third .
to open a spot for teixeira , the red sox might have to trade lowell and move youkilis across the diamond .
however , lowell , come off right hip surgery , be likely to have to prove he health in spring training if he be to be deal .
last winter the red sox re - sign lowell , the most valuable player of the 2007 world series , to a three - year , 37 . 5 million contract .
the red sox control youkili contractually for the next two year , so it highly doubtful he would be move .
youkilis finish third in the american league most valuable player voting in november .
david ortiz , boston star designate hitter , be a 10 - 5 man -lrb- 10 year in the major , five with the same team -rrb- , mean he could veto any trade .
8 : 24am .
accord to michael silverman of the boston herald , the red sox make a offer to mark teixeira .
silverman believe it to be for eight year .
tex be believe to be seek more than 21mm per year , closer to alex rodriguez 27 . 5mm per year .
the angel be reportedly at eight year and at least 160mm , the oriole around seven year , 140 - 150mm , and the national at eight year , 160mm .
red sox - teixeira rumor .
december 15 , 2008 at 1 : 00pm cst .
2 : 16pm : take it with a grain of salt , but we have a report of a report that the red sox offer mark teixeira a eight - year , 200mm deal .
earl bloom of the orange county register hear dan patrick say it on he radio show .
it be best to treat the report with skepticism until it confirm by another source .
angel general manager tony reagin confirm to the lo angele time that he have make a eight-year offer to free agent first baseman mark teixeira .
regain do not reveal the dollar amount , but the newspaper speculate the deal be worth at least $ 160 million .
teixeira be consider the top offensive player available on the free agent market , and the oriole -lrb- seven year , $ 140 $ 150 million -rrb- and national -lrb- eight year , $ 160 million -rrb- reportedly have make sizeable offer as well .
the red sox , consider to be the front-runner for teixeira , also have put in a bid , though monetary detail have be keep quiet .
there have be talk of the yankee be in the teixeira sweepstakes as well .
teixeira , 28 , have hit at least 30 homer and drive in at least 105 run in each of the past five season .
after be acquire from the brave before the trading deadline this past season , teixeira hit .358 with 13 homer and 43 rbis in 54 game with the angel .
boston red sox majority owner john w . henry , ceo larry lucchino and general manager theo epstein fly to texa on thursday night to meet with free agent mark teixeira and he agent , scott bora , in a effort to convince the switch - hit first baseman to sign with boston .
the red sox have make a eight - year offer to teixeira in excess of 160 million , but source close to the negotiation say it be less than the 184 million report by boston wcvb sportscaster mike lynch , who first report that the meeting would take place .
the meeting will not result in a '' take it or leave it '' scenario by the red sox , a source say .
however , henry say earlier this week that the red sox will not satisfy boras '' request for a 10 - year deal , and it appear highly unlikely that boston will go beyond eight year .
the party be meet at a undisclosed location in texa , the red sox have request the face - to - face meeting with the player so he can hear directly from they why they believe he should spend the next eight year in boston .
the lo angele angel , baltimore oriole and washington national also have make offer to teixeira , but to date none of those offer be believe to be for more than eight year .
yankee general manager brian cashman also meet with teixeira earlier this month , but that be before the yankee commit more than 240 million to sign pitcher cc sabathia and a . j . burnett , so it appear unlikely they would make a grab for teixeira as well .
boras also represent free - agent catcher jason varitek , the red sox captain who decline a offer of salary arbitration from the team .
boston have not make another offer to varitek since , though the side continue to talk .
a third boras client , free - agent pitcher derek lowe , also be of interest to the red sox , but they have not make he a offer and be expect to do so only if he drop he price .
lowe be believe to be seek a five - year deal in the 75 million range .
teixeira , who turn 29 on april 11 , have average more than 30 home run and 100 rbis in he six big - league season , while post a . 919 op and play gold glove - caliber defense .
the red sox envision he as a middle - of - the - lineup presence to offset last july '' be departure of manny ramirez to the dodger .
if teixeira sign with the red sox , they would move all - star kevin youkili from first to third base while look to trade third baseman mike lowell , the 2007 world series mvp .
the lo angele angel of anaheim offer free-agent first baseman mark teixeira a eight-year contract at the winter meeting in las vegas .
owner arte moreno meet with scott bora , teixeira 's agent , and present he with the offer , which be believe to be worth at least $ 160 million and possibly as much as $ 180 million over the life of the contract .
'' it be something they can consider - or should consider , '' angel general manager tony reagin tell mlb.com on friday .
'' they have the right . '' .
other team in the battle for teixeira be the baltimore oriole -lrb- seven year , $ 140-150 million -rrb- , washington national -lrb- eight year , $ 160 million -rrb- and boston red sox .
the new york yankee also have express interest .
teixeira , 28 , be acquire by the angel in a july 29 deal with the atlanta brave last season and hit 13 home run and 43 rbis in 54 game .
overall , he finish the season with a .308 average , 33 homer and 121 rbi .
it mark the fifth straight 30-homer , 100-rbi season for teixeira .
he bat .467 with seven hit and four walk in the american league division series as the angel fall to the red sox in four game .
national eight - year offer to teixeira reportedly bump as high as 184m .
december 23 , 2008 .
for week now , mark teixeira have contemplate he next home - - a wait game that have slowly shorten the list of team in pursuit of he service .
but evidently , the waiting have cause teixeira price tag to drop even the slightest .
one report post online last night by masn sport roch kubatko suggest that the washington national have upgrade they initial offer to teixeira - - eight year , 160 million - - to somewhere between 178 million and 184 million over the same timeframe .
no member of the team front office would add comment yesterday on the current offer or indicate whether the team have sweeten the deal .
by way of decline to offer the number of washington proposal to teixeira , team president stan kasten say , there be bargain , but luxury goods be still not be discount . '' .
regardless of the money , the team front office still know it would take a mild upset for the 28 - year - old to settle on a deal with washington .
on sunday night , the lo angele angel withdraw they contract offer to teixeira , believe he have no sincere interest in play for the organization with which he end the 2008 season .
the boston red sox and baltimore oriole have offer on the table , and though they have yet to make a concrete offer the new york yankee might also contemplate a last - minute bid .
various news report late last week peg the boston offer to be as high as 184 million over eight year , though subsequent rumor suggest that the number be a little lower - - perhaps between 165 million and 180 million .
the oriole have the weakest offer of the bunch - - a proposal reportedly worth between 140 million and 150 million over seven year .
so far , no team involve have offer a contract longer than eight year .
teixeira agent , scott bora , enter the free agency process hope he client could attract a 10 - year deal .
either way , teixeira will end up with one of the biggest payday in baseball history , almost certainly exceed the 161 million -lrb- over seven year -rrb- that fellow free agent cc sabathia receive from the yankee earlier this offseason .
the angel have offer a eight-year contract to mark teixeira , general manager tony reagin say friday night .
the contract would be the longest and richest in club history .
the value could almost double the previous club record , the $ 90 million guarantee last year to torii hunter .
reagin decline to provide the value of teixeira 's offer .
the angel be believe to have offer at least $ 160 million , match or exceed the highest offer so far report for teixeira .
owner arte moreno fly from he arizona home to las vegas on tuesday and meet personally with scott bora , the agent for teixeira .
angel spokesman tim mead say he believe moreno present the offer to bora at that time .
mead also say he do not know when the offer might expire .
none of the other team in the teixeira sweepstakes -- the boston red sox , baltimore oriole and washington national -- have be report to have offer more than eight year .
the national reportedly have bid $ 160 million over eight year , the oriole between $ 140 million and $ 150 million over seven year .
the detail of the boston bid have not be report .
the angel have exclusive negotiating rights with teixeira for the first 15 day after the world series , but they decline to make a offer during that time and say they would do so at a appropriate time .
boras have have one month since then to solicit bid from other team , enable he to let moreno know how the market have develop and enable moreno to make he first -- and perhaps only -- offer without bora shop that offer to other team .
the angel have not waver from treat teixeira as they top priority , even as other coveted option have evaporate .
the angel negotiate with pitcher cc sabathia , a favorite among they scout , but they choose not to make a offer after decide they would not match the new york yankee ' initial $ 140-million bid .
sabathia agree to a seven-year , $ 161-million deal with the yankee late tuesday night , hour after moreno meet with boras .
on friday , outfielder raul ibanez sign a three-year , $ 31.5-million contract with the philadelphia philly .
the angel have consider signing ibanez if they lose out on teixeira , with ibanez playing leave field and kendry morale replace teixeira at first base .
the angel ' eight-year offer first be report friday night on the team-owned radio station , be 830 .
source : sox may not be out of teixeira chase .
team exec meet with player agent .
update 3 : 09 be est dec 19 , 2008 .
despite say they have be outbid for free agent first baseman mark teixeira , the red sox do not believe they be completely out of the chase , sportscenter 5 have learn .
source have also tell sportscenter 5 mike lynch more about the negotiation that take place thursday at teixeira texa home .
lynch report the red sox team of owner john henry , coo larry lucchino and general manager theo epstein offer teixeira , 28 , a eight - year deal worth 184 million or 23 million per season .
it be then that agent scott bora counter by ask for a eight - year contract worth 200 million , source say .
lynch report that henry become infuriate at that point , balk at the massive sum .
in a e - mail to media member thursday night , henry say , we meet with mr . teixeira and be very much impressed with he .
after hear about he other offer , however , it seem clear that we be not go to be a factor . '' .
henry reference to the other offer leave open the possibility that he be call bora bluff , who have be know to inflate the value of offer and the number of suitor pursue he client , lynch report .
boras represent former red sox center fielder johnny damon , who sign with the new york yankee in 2005 after the boston brass apparently refuse to believe that the offer from they archrival be real .
lynch also learn that one of teixeira hometown team , the washington national , have make a huge offer .
teixeira be a maryland native .
teixeira be trade from atlanta to lo angele in july .
he hit . 308 with 33 homer and 121 rbis last season , include . 358 with 13 homer and 43 rbis in 54 game with the angel .
the angele say last week they make a eight - year offer .
henry have express concern about a contract of eight year or more .
we all have limit , '' he write the ap on wednesday .
eight year be a very long time in baseball and everywhere else . '' .
he also say the amount the team be willing to spend on a free agent depend on both the economy and the player be seek .
super-agent scott bora say leave the winter meeting that it be go to take a eight-year deal to get the service of slug first-baseman mark teixeira .
the angel apparently be good with that .
lo angele general manager tony reagin have sound like a broken record say that resign teixeira be he top priority , and back that up now with a eight-year offer .
no dollar figure have be release with the offer , but the seven-year offer for teixeira be in the $ 140 million to $ 160 million range and the new offer be expect to be at the top of that range .
if accept , this would certainly be the largest contract in the angel history , dwarf the four-year , $ 90 million deal that torii hunter get just last summer .
but if he keep mash like he do after the trade , teixeira could be worth the bank .
in 54 game with the angele he hit .358 with 13 home run and 43 rbi , and have a slug percentage of .632 .
the two-time gold glove winner also help solidify the angele infield .
after the winter meeting , the conventional wisdom be that the red sox be the frontrunner for teixeira 's service , even though they meet privately and they offer be never make public -lrb- maybe that be why people think they be the leader -rrb- .
however , no other offer -lrb- include from the national and oriel try to bring teixeira back to he native maryland -rrb- be think to be more than seven year .
the race for teixeira seem to be in the final furlong .
but then again , boras be a patient man , especially if he think more money could be around the corner .
the lo angele angel make a eight-year offer to first baseman mark teixeira during winter meeting in las vegas .
team spokesman tim mead confirm sunday the angel have withdraw they offer and be '' out of the mark teixeira derby . '' .
the team make its offer , reportedly worth about we $ 160 million , during the winter meeting in las vegas earlier this month .
the red sox say last week that they '' be not go to be a factor '' in sign the 28-year-old maryland native .
washington and baltimore have express interest in teixeira .
the angel obtain teixeira from the atlanta brave in late july .
play in a combined 157 game with the angel and brave , teixeira have 33 homer and 121 rbis along with a career-best .308 average .
teixeira not head to boston .
can you believe it ?
i can '' t .
yet it '' be come from up top .
red sox owner john henry have say , in so many word , that he team will not sign mark teixeira .
he exact word .
'' we meet with mr . teixeira and be very much impressed with he .
after hear about he other offer , however , it seem clear that we be not go to be a factor . '' .
you can follow the entire saga on mlb trade rumor .
no one expect this , at least not this soon .
the red sox , the team so many consider the frontrunner for teixeira , will , in the word of the owner himself , not be factor .
it appear , from henry '' s word , the price tag be a bit too high .
report of the red sox offer vary , though wcvb - tv claim it be eight year and 184 million , or a 23 million average annual value .
boston could obviously jump back into the picture , but for now it appear they '' ll let the first baseman sign elsewhere .
clearly , i expect a flurry of '' now the yankee have to get he '' comment .
think about this , though .
there '' s at least one offer out there better than eight year and 184 million .
should the yankee go higher than 25 million a season for teixeira ?
so as thing turn out , apparently there be team in major league baseball not name the new york yankee who be willing to spend money this winter .
after let francisco rodriguez leave to join the new york met and fail to sign cc sabathia , the angel find themselves with some money lay around , and they have decide to spend it on mark teixeira .
accord to a report in the lo angele time , the angel have make a offer to the free agent first baseman that would be the biggest contract in the history of the franchise , surpass the $ 90 million deal they give to torii hunter last season .
while the number be not confirm , the deal be believe to be a offer of eight year and around $ 160 million .
owner arte moreno fly from he arizona home to las vegas on tuesday and meet personally with scott bora , the agent for teixeira .
angel spokesman tim mead say he believe moreno present the offer to bora at that time .
mead also say he do not know when the offer might expire .
the angel , of course , be one of four team that be know to be pursue teixeira .
the national offer he the same deal as the angel , the oriole have make a offer between $ 140 and $ 150 million over seven year , and nobody know for sure what the red sox have offer .
i be pretty sure the red sox offer will be the only one the angel have to compete with because even though the national and oriole be close to teixeira 's home , neither have any realistic expectation of compete for a world series next season , with or without teixeira .
in other news , somewhere manny ramirez just punch something .
with last night 's news from lo angele angel gm tony reagin that the team have make a eight-year contract offer -lrb- dollar undisclosed -rrb- to 1b mark teixeira , the trade rumor be report , most recently by john perrotto at baseball prospectus , about the angel go after san diego padre ' ace be likely caput .
perrotto 's iteration have aaa rhp nick adenhart and aaa ss brandon wood head a package that would lead to peavy top the angel ' rotation .
while the angel be be lump in with the big spender of baseball -lrb- read : new york yankee and boston red sox -rrb- , there be little to indicate the angel ' off-season plan include drop $ 20mm per on teixeira and another $ 15 + mm on a start pitcher .
as a back-up plan to a failure to land teixeira , yes .
however , a interesting scenario develop if teixeira spur the west coast in favor of work closer to home for the washington national or baltimore oriole .
in this scenario , the angel would have the luxury of deal peavy to the padre for a wood/adenhart/reggie willits/reliever package , and revive its offense with the signing of non-tender 3b/2b ty wigginton and jonny gome .
first base : boston in good spot for teixeira .
december 22nd , 2008 8 : 55 be .
the angel have withdraw they offer to free - agent 1b mark teixeira , report foxsport . com and yahoo ! sport .
in fact , angel gm tony reagin later confirm the report to the lo angele time , add that he be no longer pursue teixeira .
similarly , buster olney of espn . com believe the national do not expect to sign teixeira , despite make a eight - year offer .
meanwhile , accord to the newsday , teixeira still have a eight - year offer on the table from the red sox , worth roughly 22 million per season .
... ok , so , the sox have the high offer , the angel be out , the national lack confidence , and the o '' s have reportedly only offer seven year ... which would suggest the red sox be in very , very good position to land teixeira ... unless , of course , a new team can be wrangle in to the mix ... .
in a earlier report , newsday report that teixeira '' s agent , scott bora , be work to get the yankee involve again .
olney believe brian cashman make teixeira a offer earlier in the off - season , but have since pull it back .
... in case you '' be wonder , six article and the met be not mention once as ever have interest in teixeira ... .
vote for mp to majlis -lrb- parliament -rrb- begin in turkmenistan on dec. .
a total of 288 candidate run for 125 parliamentary seat , with 37 of the candidate register in the capital city of turkmenistan - ashgabat , 46 in akhal region , 25 in balkan region , 63 in dashoguz region , 56 in lebap region , and 61 in mary region .
of the 288 candidate , 286 have higher education , 202 be under 45 year old , and 56 be woman .
turkmenistan have 27 polling station abroad attach to the country 's diplomatic mission .
election take place by the voting of turkmenistan citizen on the basis of a universal , equal and direct suffrage with secret ballot and alternative basis .
the term of office of mp be five year .
for the first time foreign observer and expert , representative from european state and international organization include un , osce , and cis executive committee monitor election in turkmenistan .
voter in turkmenistan begin to cast they ballot at 8 : 00 be local time -lrb- 0300 gmt -rrb- on sunday in the country 's fourth parliamentary election , say report from ashgabat , turkmenistan 's capital .
over 2.5 million turkmen be eligible to vote at more than 2,000 booth in the country , while there be 27 overseas booth .
voting will close at 6 : 00 p.m. local time -lrb- 1300 gmt -rrb- sunday .
in accordance with the country 's election law , there be a total of 125 contituency in the current election and single winner will be elect in each of they for a term of five year .
a total of 288 candidate be vie for the 125 seat in the legislature .
the 4th parliamentary election of turkmenistan end sunday evening as schedule , say report from ashgabat , turkmenistan 's capital .
more than 2,000 booth in 125 constituency in the country be close at 6:00 p.m. local time -lrb- 1300 gmt -rrb- .
the central election and referendum commission declare the election valid .
official election result will be announce within 10 day .
some 2.44 million people , account for some 88.41 percent of the country 's eligible voter , cast they ballot as of 4:00 p.m. local time -lrb- 1100 gmt -rrb- .
under turkmen law , parliamentary election can only be declare valid with a turnout more than 50 percent of eligible voter .
the election attract wide attention as it be hold amid constitutional and justice reform advocate by president kurbanguly berdymukhamedov .
about 40 observer from the unite nation , the organization for security and cooperation in europe and the commonwealth of independent state oversee the election .
this be the first the government allow international observer to supervise the election in turkmenistan .
berdymukhamedov say earlier that the parliamentary election in turkmenistan would show the international community that the country 's democratization process be irreversible with the adoption of a new constitution .
parliamentary election in turkmenistan to be hold on two - party basis .
26 september 2013 , 10 : 00 -lrb- gmt : 00 -rrb- .
parliamentary election in turkmenistan which be plan for december 15 , 2013 , will be hold on a two - party basis , a message from the central commission for election and referenda of turkmenistan say .
representative of the two political party will compete for victory in the parliamentary election .
this will give a powerful impetus to the pre - election campaign and allow the electorate to nominate the most worthy representative for the country legislative body , the message say .
the start of the campaign for this election will be announce on october 5 , 2013 , in turkmenistan .
nomination of candidate for the national parliament will take place from october 16 to november 14 .
registration will run from october 26 to november 20 .
at a meeting of the central election commission it be decide to hold training seminar for representative of political party , public organisation and association , electoral commission and national observer .
it be expect the election will be monitor by national observer and invite international expert and witness from many foreign country and major international organisation and in the first instance , the european union , the cis and the osce .
the mp term of office be five year .
the main current staff be elect in december 2008 .
last year a law on political party be adopt in turkmenistan .
on this basis , a party of turkmenistan industrialist and entrepreneur be establish in august 2012 in ashgabat with the participation of 300 delegate represent enterprise structure from all region of the country .
up till then , the only political organisation , namely the democratic party , head by president gurbanguly berdimuhamedov be register in the country .
in august 2013 the turkmen leader adopt a decision to remove the duty of the chairman of this political structure from himself .
turkmenistan vote sunday in a parliamentary election mean to show that the energy-rich central asian nation be shed its autocratic past , but western observer say nothing have change .
authority say turnout reach 93.87 percent in the election for 288 candidate , all of whom support the policy of president gurbanguly berdymukhamedov in the ex-soviet republic .
vote station be festoon with turkmen flag and picture of berdymukhamedov , the successor of eccentric dictator saparmurat niyazov , who rule turkmenistan for two decade until he death in 2006 .
over 2.5 million people be eligible to vote in the election , hold under the framework of a new constitution approve in september and intend to increase parliament 's power and raise the number of seat from 65 to 125 .
'' i attach hope for the better to these election , especially for we child , '' valentina redzhepova , a official at one of ashgabat 's voting precinct , tell afp .
'' we be wait for border to open even further so more guest can come to we and so we can visit they . '' .
voter , however , appear reluctant to criticise the government .
in gyamus , a village outside the turkmen capital , 25-year-old guzel say she have come to the local polling station to vote and watch she daughter perform in a child 's folk-dance troupe .
'' i vote for we fellow village resident .
he be a experienced person and know village life well , '' she say .
pensioner bayram-aga , a voter in ashgabat , say .
'' i remember the election from the soviet day ... .
people be very active then , it be like a festival .
now it be much quieter . '' .
western observer say niyazov still cast a shadow , despite promise of openness by berdymukhamedov and some move to dismantle the late dictator 's bizarre personality cult .
niyazov 's gold statue still tower over the desert nation 's capital , rotate to face the sun .
'' the facade have change but the foundation remain the same , '' say a western diplomat , who request anonymity .
'' power rest entirely with the president .
he photo appear every day on the front of the papers .
he strictly control the economy and the whole of the media , '' the diplomat add .
new york-based human rights watch say in a assessment last month that turkmenistan have make '' some progress '' but '' remain ... one of the most repressive and authoritarian state in the world . '' .
the election be unlikely to get a clean bill of health from the west , not least as all candidate have stress support for the president while campaigning .
the organization for security and cooperation in europe send eight expert to monitor the poll and draw up a '' internal report . '' .
the group 's spokesman , jen hagen eschenbecher , tell afp that the expert would not be make any public statement on they conclusion .
ninety percent of the 288 candidate come from the democratic party set up by niyazov in place of the communist party , with the other 10 percent come from so-called '' initiative group '' that have little clout .
all candidate be fund by the state , with a ban on other funding .
western journalist have be refuse permission to cover the vote .
foreign election observer will mainly come from the commonwealth of independent state , a post-soviet group with little credibility .
with its enormous natural gas reserve , turkmenistan be central to european effort to diversify gas supplies away from russia .
berdymukhamedov have voice support for give the west more access to turkmen gas .
27 / 09 / 2013 - turkmenistan to hold first - ever parliamentary election on a two - party basis .
publish on friday , 27 september 2013 .
parliamentary election in turkmenistan that be schedule for december 15 of this year will be hold on a two - party basis , for the first time in the country '' s history , accord to the central election commission of turkmenistan .
voter in turkmenistan cast ballot sunday in a parliamentary election hail by the government as a exercise in democracy but dismiss by critic as a sham .
the election of a 125-seat national legislature be the first parliamentary vote in the natural-gas rich central asian nation since the death of longtime autocrat saparmurat niyazov two year ago .
he successor , gurbanguli berdymukhamedov , say the election be a key step in the development of democracy .
but while the seat be contest , only one political party be legally register in turkmenistan , and its opponent have no foothold in politics .
the u.s. and europe be court turkmenistan as they seek to diversify energy source and be watch the vote for sign of change .
turkmen election to have 2 party for 1st time .
2013 - 09 - 26 .
for the first time in post - soviet turkmenistan history , its parliamentary election will have two party , itar - tass report september 26 , cite the country central election and referendum commission -lrb- tskvpr -rrb- .
besides the ruling democratic party -lrb- former communist party -rrb- , the party of industrialist and entrepreneur -lrb- pppt -rrb- -- found in 2012 -- will be seek seat in the december 15 election .
parliament have 125 seat .
the campaign start october 5 , accord to tskvpr .
presently , parliament have one pppt member , who win a vacate seat in akhal oblast in june .
the people of turkmenistan have vote in the first parliamentary election hold after the adoption of a new constitution earlier this year .
the central election commission say that turnout be almost 90 % .
it be the first poll to be hold under president kurbanguly berdymukhamedov , who have promise to end the central asian nation 's international isolation .
the authority say the vote be a important democratic step , but critic question the validity of the process .
almost all of the 288 candidate run for 125 seat in the parliament come either from turkmenistan 's sole political party , the democratic party , or state-affiliated organisation .
all candidate be fund by the state as alternative funding be ban .
ethnic minority , such as the sizeable uzbek community , be not permit to nominate they own candidate .
international observer .
there be no shortage of voter in the parliamentary election in turkmenistan , the former soviet republic which border the caspian sea .
accord to the country 's central election commission the turnout be extremely high .
almost all of the 2.5 million people eligible cast they vote , report say .
state media proudly report that turkmen citizen live abroad be able to vote for the first time at turkmen embassy and consulate .
official be keen to demonstrate that these election be part of turkmenistan 's process of democratisation .
international observer from the organisation for security and co-operation in europe be invite to monitor the poll .
they be not expect to give any formal assessment of the election proceedings .
previously , turkmenistan have a people 's council whose 2,507 member have to be approve by the country 's late ruler , saparmurat niyazov , who die in 2006 after 21 year in power .
the new leader , mr berdymukhamedov , a former dentist , have introduce a number of measure to modernise the gas-rich nation , after year of isolation under he predecessor .
abolish the people 's council and reinstate the country 's parliament be one of they .
however the country remain largely close to the outside world .
electoral district establish in turkmenistan due to parliamentary election .
4 october 2013 , 18 : 07 -lrb- gmt : 00 -rrb- .
regard the election of deputy of the turkmen mejlis -lrb- parliament -rrb- , which be schedule for december 15 , 2013 , a decision be take on establishment of electoral district , the resolution of the central election commission of turkmenistan release on friday say .
in accordance with article 60 of the turkmen constitution for the orderly conduct of the election in the country 125 electoral district will be establish , include those in ashgabat city - 15 , akhal province - 15 , balkan province - 10 , dashoguz province - 27 , lebap province - 28 , mary province - 30 .
it be expect that the start of the campaign for this election will be announce on october 5 , 2013 , in turkmenistan .
nomination of candidate for the national parliament will take place from october 16 to november 14 .
registration will run from october 26 to november 20 .
it be expect the election will be monitor by national observer and invite international expert and witness from many foreign country and major international organisation and in the first instance , the european union , the cis and the osce .
the mp term of office be five year .
the main current staff be elect in december 2008 .
accord to the turkmen constitution , the parliament pass law , make change and addition to the constitution of turkmenistan ; examine the state budget approval , address question on hold referendum and announce presidential and parliamentary election .
it also consider issue the appointment and dismissal of the chief of the supreme court , attorney general , interior minister and minister of justice and ratify and terminate international treaty , address issue on change of state border and the administrative - territorial division of turkmenistan .
voter in reclusive turkmenistan elect a parliament sunday in balloting herald by authority in the natural gas-rich nation as a key step toward democratic standard but dismiss by critic as a sham .
the election come two year after the death of idiosyncratic dictator saparmurat niyazov , which kindle hope here and in the west that the central asian country would gradually roll back its oppressive political regime and introduce greater freedom .
niyazov 's successor , president gurbangulus berdymukhamedov , have revoke some of he more draconian decree and vow to pursue political reform .
but most of the parliamentary candidate be from the only permit political party , and exile opposition activist say the president have fail to live up to he promise .
'' beyond all the pompous declaration , there will be no real change , '' tadzhigul begmedova , director of the turkmenistan helsinkus foundation for human rights , say by telephone from varna , bulgaria .
'' the hope many people have that a new president would open up turkmen society have be shatter . '' .
on the surface , turkmenistan 's political landscape be change .
in september , the rubber-stamp people 's council - a 2,507-member assembly of presidential appointee , town elder and other - vote to abolish itself and cede most of its power to a expand parliament .
but out of the 288 candidate run for the 125 seat sunday , more than half be member of the pro-presidential democratic party of turkmenistan - a political force create out of the ash of the soviet-era turkmen communist party .
non-party candidate have be draw from state-controlled woman 's and veteran ' organization , trade union and a youth group .
the only non-party candidate in the capital , ashgabat , avidly support berdymukhamedov - undermine official claim the poll will offer a wide choice .
'' i will devote all my strength to the honest and righteous support of we esteemed president 's domestic and foreign policy , '' the candidate , regional bureaucrat resulberdy mammedov , say in a campaign statement .
niyazov isolate turkmenistan from the international community and forge a pervasive personality cult .
he call himself turkmenbashi , or father of all turkmen , rename month after himself and he mother , and make he self-penned spiritual tome mandatory reading for student and state employee .
with berdymukhamedov decrease the country 's isolation , government opponent claim the election be aim to appease western country that be eager to win access to its vast natural-gas reserve but wary of its record on democracy and human rights .
the u.s. and european union be seek to lessen russia 's control over export of turkmen gas .
'' this whole spectacle have be arrange for the international community , to show that turkmenistan be follow the path of democratization , '' say begmedova .
while official have extol the vote as a exercise in democracy , there have be little campaigning and little coverage on state-run television , in contrast with the february 2007 presidential election that confirm berdymukhamedov 's role as head of state .
'' there be very few billboard around the city .
with just four day to go before the election , i still do not know who i be suppose to vote for , '' say maral , 45 , a ashgabat resident who decline to give she surname for fear of official intimidation .
un consult turkmenistan on electoral process .
2 october 2013 , 15 : 39 -lrb- gmt : 00 -rrb- .
on october 1 - 2 ashgabat host a seminar organise with the assistance of the unite nation development programme on enhance the electoral system and process in turkmenistan , a statement of the event organiser say on wednesday .
the project be a part of a joint project with the central commission for election and referenda -lrb- cec -rrb- in turkmenistan .
the objective of this meeting be to provide expert support to professional and member of the electoral commission on issue of administration and technical procedure of the electoral process , as well as advice in prepare a plan to monitor the election , the information say .
after the seminar , un consultant will submit the country cec guideline for the use of the international standard of election observation in accordance with national legislation .
turkeminstan cec plan to hold election on december 15 2013 .
it be expect that the election will be observe by local observer and invite international expert and observer from many foreign country and major international organisation and in the first instance , the european union , cis and osce .
the term of office of turkmen mp be five year .
the current senior composition be elect in december 2008 .
turkmen go to the poll sunday in a parliamentary election the west see as a test of the central asian nation 's commitment to bring about change after decade of isolation .
critic say the poll be a sham and design to put a gloss of democracy on a government that tolerate no dissent .
all the candidate in sunday 's election represent either the ruling democratic party of turkmenistan , the only party register in turkmenistan , or a handful of state-approved independent .
europe will be watch the vote closely as it try to gauge how much business it can do with the gas-rich nation it see as key to its energy diversification .
the parliament election be over in turkmenistan .
turkmenistan 's voter be go to the poll in parliamentary election portray by the government as a step towards democracy in the gas-rich central asian nation .
but critic say that sunday 's vote be a sham with all the candidate either represent the ruling democratic party , the only registered party , or a handful of state-approved independent .
'' beyond all the pompous declaration , there will be no real change , '' tadzhigul begmedova , director of the turkmenistan helsinkus foundation for human rights , say from bulgaria .
'' the hope many people have that a new president would open up turkmen society have be shatter . '' .
gurbanguli berdymukhamedov become president in 2006 after the death of saparmurat niyazov , who forge a personality cult that see month of the year rename after himself and he mother , and a spiritual guide he author become mandatory for student and government worker .
pluralism and openess ' .
berdymukhamedov roll back some of the decree which have celebrate the previous leader and vow to increase democracy and foreign investment .
'' it do not matter who get elect .
the president have the final say '' .
'' this campaign stand out for its pluralism , openness and the activeness of the citizen , '' a election official tell the afp news agency , request anonymity .
in september , the people 's council , a 2,507-member assembly of presidential appointee , town elder and other , vote to abolish itself and cede most of its power to a expand parliament .
but more than half of the 288 candidate run for the parliament 's 125 seat on sunday be from the democratic party , while the other have be draw from state-controlled woman 's and veteran ' organisation , trade union and a youth group .
all of they receive state funding for the campaign as no other form of political funding be allow under turkmenistan 's law .
'' it do not matter who get elect .
the president have the final say , '' osman-aga , who herd camel in a remote desert area , tell the reuter news agency .
contest impossible ' .
the organisation for security and co-operation in europe have not send only three observer to monitor the vote , say a genuine contest be impossible .
human rights watch say in a report last month .
'' the condition be not in place to hold a free and fair election that would be a meaningful reflection of the will of the people . '' .
the presence of foreign media also be limit as many journalist be unable to get permission to report there .
the run-up to the election in the former soviet state have see little campaigning and garner little coverage on state-run television .
'' there be very few billboard around the city ... .
i still do not know who i be suppose to vote for , '' maral , a resident of ashgabat who decline to give she surname for fear of official intimidation , tell the associated press news agency .
the government of turkmenistan say 90 per cent of eligible voter have participate in parliamentary election sunday , despite boycott from opposition group .
the election , the first since the country adopt a new constitution earlier this year , have 2.5 million eligible voter pick between 288 candidate for 125 seat in the revive parliament .
in another first , the government allow international observer to oversee the election .
accord to media report , president kurbanguly berdymukhamedov see the step as necessary to prove that the oil and gas-rich nation can meet western standard of democracy .
but opposition group boycott the election .
group represent uzbek , the nation 's largest minority , complain that there be not a single uzbek name on the ballot .
additionally , human rights group argue that recent reform implement by berdymukhamedov 's government be mere window dress .
a victory by group with close tie to the administration be expect .
the government claim that seat a new parliament be a major step forward .
under berdymukhamedov 's predecessor , law be rubber-stamp by a group know as the people 's council , which be loyal to former president saparmurat niyazov , also know as turkmenbaschi , or leader of all turkmen .
niyazov die in 2006 .
the indian navy have capture 23 somalian pirate .
the pirate be about to board a vessel in the gulf of aden when they be apprehend .
last month , india 's navy draw criticism after sink a thai fishing trawler that have be commandeer hour earlier by pirate , but the navy say it fire in self-defence .
somali pirate have become increasingly brazen , and recently seize a saudi supertanker load with e75m worth of crude oil .
in sukanya intercept pirate ship , arm seize .
november 12 , 2011 .
indian navy have foiled a piracy attempt on 5 indian merchant vessel in international water .
navy frigate in sukanya intercept 3 pirate ship and seize arm and ammunition from the pirate .
news x have exclusive picture of the anti - piracy operation .
this operation be part of the international effort to secure high sea ; india have be at the forefront of anti - piracy operation .
the indian navy say it arrest 23 pirate who threaten a merchant vessel in the gulf of aden on saturday , the latest in a series of recent clash with somali pirate .
indian force repulse the pirate as they be about to board the merchant ship , navy spokesman commander nirad sinha say .
the pirate be from somalia and yemen , two country surround the gulf of aden , sinha say .
no further detail be immediately available .
last month , india 's navy draw criticism after sink a thai fishing trawler that have be commandeer hour earlier by pirate .
the navy defend its action , say it have fire in self-defense .
somali pirate have become increasingly brazen in recent month , seize a number of vessel include a saudi supertanker load with $ 100 million worth of crude oil .
somalia , a impoverished nation catch up in a islamic insurgency , have not have a function government since 1991 .
in sukanya foil piracy attempt in gulf of eden .
sit nov 12 2011 , 01 : 19 hr .
warship in sukanya on thursday foiled a piracy attempt in the gulf of aden between somalia and yemen .
the ship be escort a group of five merchant vessel through the internationally recognise transit corridor -lrb- irtc -rrb- when the bid occur .
this be the fifth anti - piracy operation carry out by the warship after it be send for patrol mission to the gulf of aden in september .
the course of in sukanya be alter to intercept boat target the merchant vessel .
the incident occur around 9 . 25 be when five boat be see approach the vessel ... ... ...
see the warship head in they direction , the skiff try to escape .
while two of they manage to flee , board - and - search operation be carry out on the other three , '' a defence spokesperson say .
six ak 47 rifle , 12 magazine and 300 round of ammunition be seize from the boat .
they have 26 crewman aboard , all somalian national .
we also manage to find grapnel , ladder and rope - handle glove , which be proof that those catch be pirate . '' .
in another successful anti-piracy operation , navy warship on saturday repulse a attack on a merchant vessel in the gulf of aden and nab 23 somali and yemeni sea brigand , in a show of resolve to weed out the menace that affect maritime trade in the region .
the pirate on two speed boat have surround the merchant vessel fly the ethiopian flag around noon , when in mysore warship intervene and ward off the attack , navy spokesperson say .
the pirate have fire at the merchant vessel with they small arm , when it send out a rescue call and the indian warship , which be sail nearby move its marine commando on a helicopter to help the distressed cargo vessel , he say .
the attack take place about 150 nautical mile off aden and in mysore be about 13 nautical mile away from the merchant vessel when it pick up the so call .
the navy fly its marine commando on helicopter to the scene of the pirate attack and rescue the ship mv gibe be later escort to safety , he add .
the naval commando also board the pirate ' boat and seize seven ak-47 assault rifle , two other rifle , a grenade launcher and 13 fully load magazine of ammunition from the 12 somali and 11 yemenus pirate on board the two pirate boat .
further search for other pirate , who flee from the spot follow the indian naval intervention , be in progress , the spokesperson say .
last month , navy warship in tabar , a missile-frigate , have sink a mother ship of the pirate and have also rescue two merchant vessel that be under attack from the sea brigand .
after the successful counter attack on the pirate , in mysore later escort mv gibe to safety , the navy spokesperson say .
it also launch further search for some of the pirate who escape after the launch of the marine commando operation .
indian navy have also seek assistance from warship of other country deploy on anti-piracy patrol in the gulf of aden to catch the runaway brigand , he say .
new delhus have take a serious view of piracy-related incident in the gulf of aden , the primary sea lane for global maritime trade to and fro oil-rich west asia , follow the abduction of mv stolt valor , which have 18 indian sailor on board , by somali pirate from the region on september 15 , 2008 .
on october 23 , india give a go-ahead to the navy 's request for a pro-active approach to counter the outlaw operate with audacity in the region along the horn of africa .
the navy rush its stealth frigate in tabar , which be already deploy nearby to gulf of aden on november 2 and since then it rescue a indian vessel mv jag arnav and a saudi cargo ship on november 11 and also sink a pirate mother ship ' on november 19 .
the first kill ' , as navy chief admiral sureesh mehta have later describe the sinking , turn out to be a thai fishing trawler under the pirate ' control carry a lot of ammunition and it go up in flame after in tabar fire at it in retaliation .
the indian navy capture 23 pirate in the gulf of aden after rescue a merchant vessel that be be hijack on saturday , the defence ministry say .
the indian in mysore be patrolling the water when it receive a distress call from ethiopian-flagged mv gibe say two boat be close in and firing , a defence ministry statement say .
'' on sight the helicopter and mysore , the boat disengage from mv gibe and attempt escape .
mysore close the vessel and order they to stop . '' .
indian commando board the larger pirate boat , seize 12 somali and 11 yemenus national as well as arm and equipment , the statement say .
piracy in the gulf of aden have be on a rise this year , with several high-profile hijacking , include the capture of saudi supertanker sirius star , which be load with $ 100 million of crude oil .
the indian navy have capture 23 pirate who threaten a merchant vessel in the lawless water of the gulf of aden .
the indian say the pirate be from somalia and yemen , two country on the coast of the gulf .
also , a german naval helicopter thwart another attack today on a freighter be chase by speedboat off yeman .
both ship that be target by the pirate be say to be ethiopian .
somali pirate recently seize a saudi supertanker load with $ 100 million of crude oil .
also , the threat of pirate recently prompt a german cruise ship to evacuate some 420 passenger and crew after the company decide not to risk they safety as the ship pass through the gulf of aden .
secretary of state condoleezza rice be set to ask the u.n. to authorize '' all necessary measure '' against the increasingly bold somalian pirate .
msnbc be report that the indian navy claim they have capture 23 pirate in the gulf of aden .
this the region where so many ship have recently be commandeer .
they have '' a large cache of weapon include 7 ak-47 rifle , a rocket propel grenade launcher , and 3 machine gun . '' .
they be take the vessel to pirate controlled region in somalia , with a estimate 1,500 pirate .
commando from a indian warship today catch pirate in the act in the gulf of aden and take 23 of they into custody , a spokesperson at naval headquarters say .
indian naval ship mysore , a destroyer , pick up a distress call from merchant vessel gibe , which fly a ethiopian flag , when it be 13 nautical mile -lrb- about 24km -rrb- from the cargo ship .
detail of what exactly happen be still await .
the gibe be about 150 nautical mile -lrb- about 277km -rrb- from aden when the pirate , say to be in a dhow or fishing vessel name salaluddin , fire at it and try to board it , accord to information available now .
two speedboat suspect to be carry more pirate be approach the gibe .
the navy spokesperson say marine commando from the mysore fly in the destroyer 's embark helicopter , board the salaluddin and catch 12 somali and 11 yemeni .
they also confiscate seven ak-47 , a 5.56 and a 7.62 rifle , a grenade launcher , three outboard motor -lrb- use to power dinghy or inflatable raft -rrb- , a handheld global positioning system and mobile phone .
the pirate in the speedboat flee .
the mysore be task to patrol a 480-nautical-mile corridor from bab-el-mandab in the west to the mouth of the gulf of aden .
it be require to be in touch with merchant vessel within a 15-nautical-mile radius at all time .
last month , marine commando from in tabar be report to have rescue two cargo vessel that be be attack .
later , the tabar fire at and sink a thai trawler that the indian navy say be a pirate '' mother vessel '' .
the mysore will eventually replace the tabar in patrolling the gulf of aden and off the coast of somalia .
a much larger ship than the frigate , the mysore be deploy because it be capable of stay out at sea longer without have to replenish frequently .
for the fourth time in two month , the indian navy on saturday take the bandit head on foil a piracy attempt and put 23 pirate out of business .
indian naval service -lrb- in -rrb- mysore , the indian naval destroyer on anti-piracy patrol in the gulf of aden , rescue a ethiopian ship , mv gibe .
pirate on a dhow and a smaller boat attack this merchant ship about 1100 hr ist , 150 nautical mile west of aden , firing machine gun to scare the crew .
the indian warship , which be escort merchant ship some 13 mile away , respond to the distress call .
they launch marine commando on a armed helicopter and altered course to confront the pirate .
the bandit lose nerve on see the helicopter and the warship and attempt to flee .
the in mysore fire warn shot , force the pirate to give up .
marine commando board the pirate dhow , salahaddin , which have the smaller boat in tow .
of the 23 pirate arrest , 12 be report to be somali and 11 yemenus .
the cache of arm on the pirate ship include seven ak-47 rifle , one rocket propel grenade launcher , grenade and three other rifle .
the pirate have be take on board the in mysore .
they be likely to be hand over to law enforce authority in djiboutus .
the indian anti-piracy patrol be move full steam ahead undeterred by the adverse publicity which follow the november 18 sinking of a thai fishing trawler in indian naval action against pirate on board .
the indian navy say saturday it have capture 23 pirate as they try to board a ethiopian-flagged vessel in the gulf of aden .
the pirate be somali and yemeni , the bbc report a navy spokesman say the indian respond to a distress call from the mv gibe and catch the pirate in the act .
on friday , a high-level u.s. naval commander say attack somali port probably would not be effective in battle rampant piracy .
speak at a security conference in bahrain attend by representative from 25 country , u.s. navy vice adm. bill gortney say there would many difficulty in attack land basis in a effort to curtail piracy .
gortney maintain that civilian casualty could be high in such attack because pirate would be hard to identify .
instead , he suggest shipper employ armed guard to protect they vessel from hijacking .
meanwhile , somali pirate saturday release a greek chemical tanker , the mv action , they have hold since october , a piracy monitor tell cnn .
'' she be currently limp to safe water -lrb- and -rrb- it be fear that three crew member lose they life under questionable circumstance , '' andrew mwangura , head of the seafarer assistance program in mombasa , kenya .
take the lead in the fight against piracy , the indian navy on saturday arrest 23 somali pirate .
a indian warship , in mysore deploy in the gulf of aden attack two boat of pirate after receive signal from a ship that the pirate be try to hijack .
the indian warship be patrolling in the somali water when it rush to rescue mv gibe , a merchant vessel fly the ethiopian flag .
the pirate on two speed boat have surround the merchant vessel , when in mysore warship intervene and ward off the attack , navy spokesperson say here .
the pirate have fire at the merchant vessel with they small arm , when it send out a rescue call and the indian warship , which be sail nearby move its marine commando on a helicopter to help the distressed cargo vessel , he say .
the attack take place about 150 nautical mile off aden and in mysore be about 13 nautical mile away from the merchant vessel when it pick up the so call .
the navy fly its marine commando on helicopter to the scene of the pirate attack and rescue the ship mv gibe be later escort to safety , he add .
the indian commando also recover 12 ak 47 gun , three rifle , two grenade along with other ammunition .
out of 23 arrest pirate , 12 be reportedly from somalia and 11 from yeman .
the indian warship , the in mysore , be dispatch to the gulf of aden after a spike in piracy and hijacking off the coast of somalia , which be catch up in a islamic insurgency and have have no function government since 1991 .
the indian navy on saturday prevent pirate from attack a merchant vessel fly a ethiopian flag in the gulf of aden and take 23 into custody .
respond to a distress call by mv gibe , in mysore on anti-piracy patrol in the area , swing into action against the pirate in two boat , a defence ministry release say .
the apprehend include 12 somali and 11 yemeni seven ak-47 , three other automatic rifle , 13 loaded magazine , a rocket-propelled grenade-launcher , rocket , cartridge and grenade be find in the boat .
there be also three outboard motor and a global positioning system receiver .
the personnel , arm , ammunition and equipment would be hand over to appropriate authority ashore .
the ministry say mv gibe put out a message at 1100 hour that it be under attack from two boat close in on it and firing small arm .
the merchant vessel retaliate with small arm onboard .
the warship some 13 nautical mile away , altered course and launch its integral armed helicopter .
on sight the warship and the helicopter , the pirate attempt to escape .
in mysore close in and order they to stop .
the larger boat , a dhow be identify as salahuddin , with the second smaller boat in tow .
marine commando board the dhow at 1230 hour and apprehend the pirate and recover the arm , ammunition and equipment .
pti report .
last month , navy warship in tabar , a missile-frigate , have sink a mother ship of the pirate and have also rescue two merchant vessel under attack .
on november 19 , in tabar sink a fishing trawler that be under the control of pirate , in a third successive strike since its deployment on november 2 this year .
update : november 11 , 2011 20 : 09 ist .
navy foil somali pirate attack off gulf of aden .
the indian navy patrolling the gulf of aden on thursday thwart a multus - boat attack by sea brigand on merchant vessel , apprehend 26 somali pirate and confiscate arm and ammunition , in the fifth successful anti - piracy operation since september .
at 9 . 25 a . m . on thursday , navy personnel aboard warship in sukanya spot a group of five suspicious boat speedily approach the merchant vessel of she group .
'' the warship immediately altered -lrb- its direction -rrb- towards the suspicious vessel and challenge they .
on see the resolve evident in the warship '' s action and probably mindful of the reputation for resolute action that the indian navy justly enjoy in such deployment , the pirate skiff reverse course and try to flee the area , '' captain manohar nambiar , chief public relation officer , defence , say .
while two of they manage to escape , in sukanya successfully intercept the remain three boat and , in a well - practice and professionally execute board - and - search action , nab 26 somali pirate with six ak 47 rifle , 12 magazine and about 300 round of ammunition .
this be the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conduct by in sukanya in the course of she ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden that commence in september , the navy say .
in sukanya , currently deploy on anti - piracy patrol in the gulf of aden under the operational control of the western naval command , be escort a group of five merchant vessel through the internationally recognise transit corridor when the incident happen .
the timely operation by in sukanya result , once again , in foil the pirate '' attempt to attack merchant vessel transit the busy sea lane through which over nearly 100 billion worth india '' s external trade pass each year , captain nambiar say .
in they five operation so far , the personnel on board the warship have confiscate 14 ak - 47 rifle , 31 magazine and 923 round of ammunition , he say .
indian navy be part of the international effort to ensure the safety and freedom of seaborne trade in this high - risk stronghold of modern - day piracy .
indian naval force come to the rescue of a merchant vessel under attack by pirate in the gulf of aden on saturday , capture 23 of the raider , india say .
india 's in mysore and its armed helicopter be on anti-piracy patrol when they receive a distress call from the ethiopian-flagged mv gibe say two boat be close in and firing , a defence ministry statement say .
'' on sight the helicopter and mysore , the boat disengage from mv gibe and attempt escape .
mysore close the vessel and order they to stop . '' .
indian commando board the larger pirate boat , seize 12 somali and 11 yemenus national as well as arm and equipment , the statement say .
a surge in piracy this year in the busy gulf of aden and indian ocean off somalia have drive up insurance cost , earn the gang ten of million of dollar in ransom , and prompt foreign navy to rush to the area to protect shipping .
several international naval operation be under way off somalia , include a nato anti-piracy mission .
the indian navy in november say it have sink the somali pirate '' mother ship '' , though a anti-piracy watchdog later say the vessel be actually a thai ship carry fishing equipment that be be hijack .
somalia have see continuous conflict since 1991 and its weak western-backed government be still fight islamist insurgent .
the chaos have help fuel the explosion in piracy .
there have be nearly 100 attack in somali water this year .
pirate hold about a dozen ship and nearly 300 crewman in safe haven on the somali coast .
among the capture vessel be a saudi supertanker load with $ 100 million of crude oil , the sirius star , and a ukrainian cargo ship carry some 30 soviet-era tank , the mv faina .
indian ship thwart piracy attempt in gulf of aden , 26 pirate arrest .
update : november 11 , 2011 18 : 50 ist .
indian naval ship , in sukanya , thwart a piracy attack in the gulf of aden and capture three boat of the pirate .
a statement from the defence pro say the incident happen yesterday when in sukanya be escort a group of merchant vessel .
five pirate boat try to attack these vessel but be challenge by the indian naval ship .
after a brief skirmish , two of they manage to flee the area but three boat be capture by in sukanya , the statement say .
the three boat have a total of 26 somali crew onboard .
during the operation , six ak - 47 rifle , 12 magazine and about 300 round of ammunition be find and confiscate .
the operation hold significance as over a hundred billion dollar of india external trade pass each year through this busy sea lane .
this be the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conduct by in sukanya , in the course of she ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden , which commence in september .
striking another blow against the pirate infest the water off the horn of africa , a indian navy warship not only repulse a attack on a merchant vessel in the gulf of aden , but nab 23 somali and yemeni sea brigand .
the pirate , in three boat , be attempt to hijack the ethopian-flagged merchant vessel around noon today , when the destroyer in mysore intervene and repulse the attack , a navy spokesman say here .
the incident take place about 150 nautical mile off aden .
after the mysore pick up a distress call from the merchant vessel , mv gibe , at around 11 a.m. say it be under attack , it immediately lauch its helicopter and head for the scene .
on sight the helicopter and the mysore , the pirate break off they attack and attempt to escape , but the warship chase they down .
marine commando board two of the pirate vessel to nab 12 somali and 11 yemenus pirate .
nine assault rifle , a grenade launcher , 13 fully load magazine and a gp receiver be seize from the pirate , the navy spokesman say .
the larger boat , a 10-metre dhow , be name the salahaddin .
it have a smaller boat , a skiff , under tow , navy source say .
the in mysore later escort the mv gibe to safety .
the pirate be be hold on board the mysore and will be hand over to appropriate authority ashore , possibly at djiboutus in ivory coast , the warship 's next port of call .
today 's operation be the fourth successful offensive by the navy in the heart of the pirate ' zone of operation .
last month , the in tabar , a missile-frigate , have sink a thai trawler that be be use as a mothership by the pirate and also rescue two merchant vessel that be under attack .
the mysore , a 6,900-tonne destroyer , replace the tabar on patrol in the region about a fortnight ago .
dozen of warship of several country be also patrolling the shipping lane in the gulf of aden .
india 's recent pro-active approach against piracy reflect the concern of the maritime community over a new surge in hijacking off somalia .
the international maritime bureau have report that pirate base in the lawless african nation be now '' out of control '' .
new delhus have take a serious view of piracy-related incident in the region follow the hijacking of mv stolt valor , with 18 indian sailor on board , by somali pirate in september this year .
on 23 october , the government give a go-ahead to the navy 's request for a pro-active approach against the pirate .
indian navy foil attack in gulf of aden , nab 26 pirate .
mumbaus , nov 11 - .
indian navy patrolling the gulf of aden yesterday thwart a multus - boat attack by sea brigand on merchant vessel , apprehend 26 somali pirate and confiscate arm and ammunition , in the fifth successful anti - piracy operation since september .
at about 9 : 25 thursday morning , navy personnel aboard warship in sukanya spot a group of five suspicious boat speedily approach the merchant vessel of she group .
the warship immediately altered -lrb- its direction -rrb- towards the suspicious vessel and challenge they .
on see the resolve evident in the warship action and probably mindful of the reputation for resolute action that the indian navy justly enjoy in such deployment , the pirate skiff reverse course and try to flee the area , '' captain manohar nambiar , chief public relation officer , defence , say .
while two of they manage to escape , in sukanya successfully intercept the remain three boat and , in a well - practice and professionally execute board - and - search action , nab 26 somali pirate with six ak 47 rifle , 12 magazine and about 300 round of ammunition .
this be the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conduct by in sukanya in the course of she ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden that commence in september , the navy say .
warship sukanya , currently deploy on anti - piracy patrol in the gulf of aden under the operational control of the western naval command , be escort a group of five merchant vessel through the internationally recognise transit corridor when the incident happen .
the timely operation by in sukanya result , once again , in foil the pirate attempt to attack merchant vessel transit the busy sea lane through which over nearly 100 billion usd worth india external trade pass each year , nambiar say .
in they five operation so far , the personnel on board the warship have confiscate 14 ak - 47 rifle , 31 magazine and 923 round of ammunition , he say .
indian navy be part of the international effort to ensure the safety and freedom of seaborne trade in this high - risk stronghold of modern - day piracy .
the indian navy capture 23 pirate who threaten a merchant vessel in the lawless water of the gulf of aden and a german naval helicopter thwart another attack saturday on a freighter be chase by speedboat off yeman .
the success come day before secretary of state condoleezza rice be to ask the unite nation to authorize '' all necessary measure '' against increasingly bold somalian pirate operate in one of the world 's busiest shipping lane .
a indian navy ship , the in mysore , be escort merchant ship in water off somalia 's coast saturday when it receive a distress call from seaman on board the mv gibe , who say they be be fire on by two boat that be approach fast .
the mysore and its helicopter speed to the scene , and the pirate boat attempt to escape when they see they , accord to a statement from the indian government .
indian marine commando board the pirate boat and seize '' a substantial cache of arm and equipment , '' include seven ak-47 assault rifle , three machine gun , a rocket-propelled grenade launcher and other weapon , the statement say .
they also find a gp receiver and other equipment .
the pirate be from somalia and yemen , two country on the coast of the gulf of aden .
the gibe be fly a ethiopian flag but little else be know about it , the indian statement say .
last month , india 's navy draw criticism after sink a thai fishing trawler that have be commandeer hour earlier by pirate .
at least one thai crew member be kill in the attack , which the indian navy have originally announce by say it have sink a pirate '' mother ship . '' .
the indian navy defend its action , say it have fire in self-defense .
somali pirate have become increasingly brazen and recently seize a saudi supertanker load with $ 100 million of crude oil .
many of the vessel be take to pirate-controlled region in somalia , where they be hold for ransom .
it be not immediately clear what would happen to the pirate capture by the indian , or where they would be take .
the statement say only that the prisoner and they weapon would be '' hand over to appropriate authority ashore . '' .
most foreign navy patrolling the somali coast have be reluctant to detain suspect because of uncertainty over where they would face trial , since somalia have no effective central government or legal system .
also on saturday , a german military spokesman say a navy frigate have chase away pirate in speedboat pursue a ethiopian freighter off the coast of yeman .
the german frigate respond to a distress call from the freighter , and a helicopter take off from the deck to investigate .
the pirate turn away from the freighter as the helicopter fly overhead , say the spokesman , who decline to give he name in line with military policy .
a estimate 1,500 pirate be base in somalia 's semiautonomous puntland region , rake in million of dollar .
secretary of state condoleezza rice will present a draft security council resolution next week ask the unite nation to authorize '' all necessary measure '' against piracy from somalia .
however , the commander of the u.s. navy 's 5th fleet express doubt friday about the wisdom of launch attack against somali pirate on land , as the draft propose .
u.s. vice adm. bill gortney tell reporter that it be difficult to identify pirate , and the potential for kill innocent civilian '' can not be overestimate . '' .
the threat of pirate recently prompt a german cruise ship to evacuate some 420 passenger and crew after the company decide not to risk they safety as the ship pass through the gulf of aden .
the passenger and crew have rejoin the m/s columbus - which be on a six-month round-the-world trip - in oman 's port of salalah after three day in dubai , hamburg-based cruise operator hapag-lloyd say saturday .
the ship and a limited crew make it through the gulf without incident , a company spokeswoman say .
indian navy capture 26 somali pirate in gulf of aden .
publish on : frus , 11 nov 2011 at 09 : 56 ist .
new delhus / mumbaus : a indian warship foiled a five - boat pirate attack on merchant vessel transit the gulf of aden on friday capture 26 somanus brigand on three of the skiff and confiscate they weapon .
patrol vessel in sukanya be escort the five merchant vessel through the internationally recognise transit corridor in the gulf of aden on thursday morning when the warship crew notice the five - boat pirate formation approach the cargo ship group .
the warship immediately alter towards the suspicious vessel and challenge they , '' the officer say , add the pirate skiff then reverse course and try to flee the area .
while two of the skiff and its crew manage to get away , sukanya successfully intercept the remain three skiff and carry out well - practiced and professionally execute board - and - search action .
the three boat have a total of 26 somali crew on board .
during the operation , six ak - 47 rifle , 12 magazine and about 300 round of ammunition be find and confiscate , '' the officer say .
he say that in addition , the naval board party also find a host of other equipment such as grapnel , ladder and rope - handle glove , all of which confirm they intent to attack and hijack the merchant vessel .
this anti - piracy action by in sukanya be the fifth successful operation by its crew during its current patrol mission in the gulf of aden since september this year .
the officer say that in sukanya have seize a total of 14 ak - 47 rifle , 31 magazine and 923 round of ammunition during the five operation it carry out there .
striking yet another blow at the very heart of piracy in the gulf of aden , indian warship in mysore and its marine commando thwart a hijack attempt on a ethiopian merchant vessel on saturday and capture 23 pirate and a large arm cache in the operation .
the arrest of the 23 pirate -lrb- 12 somali and 11 yemenus -rrb- and the arm haul be the largest such seizure in the ongoing anti-piracy operation off somalia .
the confiscate arm and equipment include seven ak-47 , three other assault rifle , 13 loaded magazine , a rocket-propelled grenade launcher with two rocket , several grenade , a gp set and a mobile phone .
early november , the british royal navy have capture eight pirate , who be subsequently hand over to kenya to face trial in the port town of mombasa .
'' the external affair ministry be now work to find out to which country the 23 pirate in in mysore 's custody can be hand over , '' say a senior officer .
'' in mysore , which replace stealth frigate in tabar early december , may head for djiboutus on the horn of africa .
we plan to base a maritime reconnaissance aircraft like a dornier at djibouti -lrb- which have a french military base -rrb- be also underway , '' he add .
pirate operate with sheer impunity from port like eyl and hobyo in somalia , tear apart by a 18-year-old civil war , have already attack as many as 100 merchant vessel transit through the crucial shipping lane this year .
at least 17 of the hijack ship and they crew be still be hold captive by the pirate for ransom .
the dramatic action on the high sea on saturday begin at 11am ist when the 6,900-tonne delhi-class missile destroyer in mysore receive a '' distress call '' over the mmb channel 16 from ethiopian merchant vessel gibe that it be be attack by a pirate '' mother dhow '' and a speedboat around 150 nautical mile east of aden .
a armed chetak helicopter , with four marine commando , be immediately '' launch '' from in mysore towards gibe , which be 13 nautical mile from the indian warship at that point in time .
'' the sailor on gibe be exchange small arm fire with the pirate .
on spot the armed chetak hover overhead , the pirate boat break off they attack , '' say a officer .
soon after , steam at full speed , the deadly in mysore also reach the spot .
by then , all 23 pirate have clamber onto the 10-metre-long dhow -- later identify as salahaddin ' -- in a bid to escape .
in mysore then open fire across the dhow 's bow with its heavy-calibre machine gun , force the sea bandit to come to a complete halt .
a detachment of heavily-armed marine commando promptly speed across to the pirate dhow in they fibre-glass inflatable boat .
'' see the marco , the pirate surrender quite easily , even though for some time they pretend to be plain fisherman .
a search of the dhow lead to the discovery of the large arm cache and three outboard motor , '' he say .
'' the grenade , be unstable , be throw off overboard .
the 23 pirate and the other arm be take on board in mysore , which will resume its patrolling duty after hand over they over to appropriate ashore authority , '' he add .
though over 20 warship from we , eu and other country be patrolling the piracy-infested gulf of aden , which connect the red sea to the indian ocean , it be actually the indian navy which have take the battle to the pirate .
on november 11 , in tabar have repulse two hijack attempt , one on a indian ship -lrb- mv jag arnav -rrb- and the other on a saudi oil carrier -lrb- ncc tihama -rrb- , one after the other .
then , on november 18 , it have sink thai trawler '' ekawat nava 5 '' , which have be commandeer by pirate , after a gunbattle .
though the navy have come in for some criticism for sink the thai trawler , admiral sureesh mehta have declare that he force have do nothing wrong .
'' thai ownership do not change the situation .
it be under the command of pirate .
use of force be inevitable ... .
we act in self-defence , '' say the navy chief .
external affair minister pranab mukherjee , too , have strongly defend the navy 's anti-piracy action on the high sea .
must see : navy pin down somali pirate in heroic face - off .
last update on : november 11 , 2011 19 : 04 ist .
indian naval ship sukanya , deploy on anti - piracy patrol in the gulf of aden under the operational control of the western naval command , thwart a multiple - boat attack by pirate on thursday and rescue 26 somali crewmember .
the ship be escort a group of five merchant vessel through the internationally recognise transit corridor at 9 : 25 hour on thursday when officer onboard detect a group of five boat approach the merchant vessel .
the warship immediately change its route and challenge the pirate ferry the suspicious vessel .
the pirate try to reverse the course of the boat and try to flee .
two manage to give the indian navy a slip , but the other three boat be intercept .
during the operation , six ak 47 rifle , 12 magazine and about 300 round of ammunition be find and confiscate .
in addition , a host of other equipment such as grapnel be also confiscate .
this be the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conduct by sukanya , in the course of she ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden , which commence in september .
so far , the indian navy have confiscate 14 ak 47 rifle , 31 magazine and 923 round of ammunition from pirate .
the indian navy on saturday foiled a hijack attempt in the notorious gulf of aden and arrest 23 heavily armed somalian and yemeni pirate .
within minute of receive a distress call from a ethiopian vessel , mv gibe , in mysore , a delhi-class destroyer , launch a armed helicopter with marine commando onboard to stop the pirate from board and hijack the vessel .
the skipper of the ethiopian vessel , sailing 150 nautical mile west of aden , radio a message at around 11 be -lrb- ist -rrb- say that pirate have bring he ship under heavy fire .
the mysore , which replace stealth frigate in tabar in november-end , immediately launch a helicopter and begin close in on the vessel .
upon sight the chopper , the pirate abandon they plan to hijack the vessel .
instead , navy source say , they tie they skiff -lrb- speedboat -rrb- to the mother vessel and pretend to be fisherman .
the mother vessel , a 10-metre craft call salahaddin , have some catch stock in it to give the impression that it be a fishing vessel .
the mysore intercept the mother vessel and fire ahead of it to prevent the pirate from get away .
source say the marine commando have sight pirate carry rocket-propelled grenade launcher and automatic weapon .
as mysore engage the pirate , the commando board the salahaddin and arrest the pirate , who decide not to hold out as they be no match for the indian warship .
the navy recover seven ak-47 assault rifle , rpg launcher , three speedboat , grenade and other ammunition .
the pirate be take onboard and would be hand over to authority in djiboutus .
it be in november that the government authorize the navy to undertake '' hot pursuit '' of pirate in the territorial water of somalia , which descend into anarchy in 1991 .
a country 's territorial water extend to 12 nautical mile from shore .
the navy have be carry out anti-piracy patrol in the international water off the gulf of aden since october 23 to '' protect indian sea-borne trade , instill confidence in the seafaring community and act as a deterrent for pirate . '' .
'' hot pursuit '' empower the navy to temporarily violate the maritime border of somalia to pursue pirate .
this mark the fourth success of the navy against pirate after it launch anti-piracy patrol .
on november 19 , tabar sink a somalian pirate vessel after be threaten with disastrous consequence .
a few day before that , the same warship foiled two hijack attempt in the gulf of aden -- - the world 's most dangerous water for commercial shipping .
it rescue a indian flagship and a saudi arabian merchant vessel .
indian naval ship interdict three pirate vessel in a single operation .
post on november 15 , 2011 6 : 07 : 15 pm gmt : 0 .
indian naval ship sukanya , presently deploy on anti - piracy patrol in the gulf of aden under the operational control of the western naval command , find herself once again in the thick of thing , thwart a multiple - boat piracy attack on 10 nov 11 .
the ship be escort a group of five merchant vessel through the irtc -lrb- internationally recognise transit corridor -rrb- when , at about 9 : 25 in the morning of 10th nov , she detect a group of five suspicious boat , speedily approach the merchant vessel of she group .
the warship immediately alter towards the suspicious vessel and challenge they .
on see the resolve evident in the warship '' s action and probably mindful of the reputation for resolute action that the indian navy justly enjoy in such deployment , the pirate skiff reverse course and try to flee the area .
while two of they manage to get away , the sukanya successfully intercept the remain three and carry out well practice and professionally execute board - and - search action .
the three boat have a total of 26 somali crew onboard .
during the operation , six ak 47 rifle , 12 magazine and about 300 round of ammunition be find and confiscate .
in addition , the board party also find a host of other equipment such as grapnel , ladder and rope - handle glove all of which confirm they piratical intent .
the timely operation by sukanya result , once again , in foil the pirate '' intention of attack merchant vessel transit this busy sea lane through which over a hundred billion dollar of india '' s external trade pass each year .
this be the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conduct by sukanya , in the course of she ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden , which commence in september .
the ship have , thus far , confiscate a total of 14 ak 47 rifle , 31 magazine and 923 round of ammunition , thereby ensure that the indian navy retain its standing as a force not to be trifle with , and remain at the forefront of anti - piracy operation , as a critical component of the international effort to curb piracy and ensure the safety and freedom of seaborne trade , even in this highly risk - prone area .
the indian navy say it have capture 23 somali and yemenus pirate who attack a merchant vessel in the gulf of aden on saturday .
a indian navy ship send its marine commando on a helicopter towards the ethiopian flag-bearing vessel mv gibe after get a distress call from it as it come under fire from two boat , the navy say in a statement .
the boat try to escape on see the navy ship but be chase and the pirate surrender to the commando when they board the boat .
'' twenty-three personnel -lrb- 12 somali and 11 yemenus -rrb- surrender on board , '' the navy say .
the pirate , along with they arm and equipment , would be hand over to the appropriate authority , it say , add that the ship would return to patrolling the gulf of aden .
last month , the navy say it have sink a pirate '' mother vessel '' off somalia in a battle that erupt after the indian ship in tabar come under attack from gunman on board the boat .
but the international maritime bureau later say that the vessel destroy by the indian navy be actually a thai fishing trawler that have be seize by pirate off yeman .
somali pirate have carry out around 100 attack in the gulf of aden and indian ocean since the start of this year .
they still hold at least 14 foreign vessel and more than 300 crew member to ransom .
somali pirate attack foiled in gulf of aden .
tnn nov 12 , 2011 , 05 . 51am ist mumbaus .
a indian warship on thursday intercept three boat with 26 somali pirate in the gulf of aden and foiled a attack on merchant vessel .
in sukanya detect five suspicious boat , speedily approach the merchant vessel that the warship be escort through the internationally recognize transit corridor .
the warship immediately alter towards the suspicious vessel and challenge they .
while two of they manage to escape , in sukanya successfully intercept the remain three and carry out board - and - search action , '' say captain manohar nambiar , chief pro -lrb- defence -rrb- .
the navy confiscate 14 ak - 47 rifle , 31 magazine and 923 round from the boat along with grapnel , ladder and rope - handle glove , nambiar say .
this be the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conduct by in sukanya , during its patrol mission in the gulf of aden .
the indian navy capture 23 piracy suspect who try to take over a merchant vessel in the gulf of aden , between the horn of africa and the arabian peninsula , indian official say .
piracy suspect raise they hand in surrender as a indian navy boat approach .
in addition to the 12 somali and 11 yemenus suspect , the indian navy seize two small boat and '' a substantial cache of arm and equipment , '' the military say in a statement .
among the seize item be seven ak-47 automatic rifle , three other automatic weapon and 13 loaded magazine ; a rocket-propelled grenade launcher along with rocket , cartridge and grenade ; up to three outboard motor and a global positioning system receiver .
pirate attack in the water off somalium have increase this year , with armed man stage increasingly bold attack on ever-larger target .
this year , pirate have attack nearly 100 vessel off somalia 's coast and hijack nearly 40 , the international maritime bureau say .
the indian warship mysore , which carry out saturday 's operation , be on anti-piracy patrol in the gulf of aden , the release say .
the mysore receive a distress call saturday morning from the mv gibe , a merchant vessel sailing under a ethiopian flag .
the gibe report that two boat be firing small arm at it .
the merchant ship , which be 13 nautical mile from the mysore , fire back with small arm onboard the vessel .
the mysore change course toward the gibe and launch a armed helicopter , the indian military say .
upon see the helicopter and the mysore closing in , the attacker break off and try to flee , the release say .
the warship catch up to the boat , the larger of which be describe as a 24 to 30-foot dhow , a traditional arab sailboat .
the dhow , identify as bear the name salahaddin , be tow a smaller skiff .
indian sailor board the salahaddin , the military say , and the 23 suspect surrender peacefully .
the suspect , weapon , ammunition and equipment will be hand over to authority , and the mysore will return to patrol duty , india say .
last month , the indian navy say it have sink a pirate '' mother vessel '' in the gulf of aden .
the ship 's owner say the sunken vessel be a thai trawler that be be seize by pirate when a indian warship fire on it .
sixteen crew member be aboard the ship , say wicharn sirichaiekawat , owner of the ekawat nava 5 .
two have be account for .
one crewman be find alive after six day adrift in the gulf of aden , and one be confirm dead , the ship 's owner say .
indian authority insist that they ship , the frigate in tabar , have act against a pirate vessel that have threaten to attack it .
'' we fire in self-defense and in response to firing upon we vessel , '' commodore nirad sinha , a navy spokesman , tell cnn .
'' it be a pirate vessel in the international water , and its stance be aggressive . '' .
he say the ship the tabar fire on be laden with ammunition .
all sort of vessel -- freight and cargo ship , cruise liner and private yacht -- have be attack in the water off somalia .
in many hijacking , pirate take the crew and passenger hostage and demand a ransom .
just this month , somali pirate capture two yemeni fishing boat and 22 yemenus fisherman in the gulf of aden , yemen 's official news agency saba report .
a day earlier , the german cruise liner m columbus say it would fly its 246 passenger and most of its crew over the gulf of aden instead of through it to avoid any pirate attack .
the united state be reportedly circulate a proposal in the u.n. security council that would allow military force to enter somali territory in '' hot pursuit '' of pirate .
the pentagon say friday , however , that there be no plan for u.s. force to go ashore in pursuit of pirate in somalia .
a five - boat pirate attack on merchant vessel transit the gulf of aden be foiled by a indian warship that be on escort duty , capture 26 somanus brigand on three of the skiff and confiscate they weapon , a naval officer say here friday .
patrol vessel in sukanya be escort the five merchant vessel through the internationally recognise transit corridor in the gulf of aden thursday morning when the warship crew notice the five - boat pirate formation approach the cargo ship group .
the warship immediately alter towards the suspicious vessel and challenge they , '' the officer say , add the pirate skiff then reverse course and try to flee the area .
while two of the skiff and its crew manage to get away , sukanya successfully intercept the remain three skiff and carry out well - practiced and professionally execute board - and - search action .
the three boat have a total of 26 somali crew on board .
during the operation , six ak - 47 rifle , 12 magazine and about 300 round of ammunition be find and confiscate , '' the officer say .
in addition , the naval board party also find a host of other equipment such as grapnel , ladder and rope - handle glove , all of which confirm they intent to attack and hijack the merchant vessel , he say .
this anti - piracy action by in sukanya be the fifth successful operation by its crew during its current patrol mission in the gulf of aden since september this year .
in sukanya have seize a total of 14 ak - 47 rifle , 31 magazine and 923 round of ammunition during the five operation it carry out there , the officer say .
the indian navy say it have arrest 23 somali and yemenus pirate who try to storm a ship in the gulf of aden .
a navy spokesman say it have respond to a mayday call from mv gibe , fly under the ethiopian flag .
several country have warship patrolling the gulf amid grow international concern about piracy .
meanwhile , we defence secretary robert gate say better intelligence be need for a land attack on pirate basis to be consider .
mr gate , speak at a security conference in bahrain , also call for shipping company to do more to protect they vessel travel through the arabian sean and indian ocean .
the indian government say in a statement that the capture pirate have a cache of arm and equipment , include seven ak-47 assault rifle , three machine gun , and a rocket-propelled grenade launcher .
the pirate would be hand over to the appropriate authority , the statement add .
last month , india 's navy say it have sink a pirate '' mother vessel '' off somalia .
but it later emerge that the vessel be actually a thai fishing trawler that have be seize by pirate off yeman .
mr gate tell the security conference .
'' the need for increase maritime security and potentially new and better means of co-operation have be highlight by the recent high-profile act of piracy off the coast of somalia and in the gulf of aden .
robert gate call for company to protect they ship better .
'' as with terrorism , piracy be a problem that have serious international implication and should be of particular concern to any nation that depend on the sea for commerce . '' .
mr gate say most ship could outrun the pirate and they should take more preventative measure , like pull up they ladder when at sea and perhaps place armed guard on board .
when ask by the bbc if the we intend to attack the pirate ' land basis , mr gate reply that the we and its ally would first need to acquire better intelligence on who be behind the ongoing attack on shipping .
he say he believe that just two or three somali clan be responsible and that the individual involve need to be target accurately to avoid kill innocent civilian .
friday , november 11 , 2011 .
anti piracy op by in sukanya .
indian naval ship sukanya , presently deploy on anti - piracy patrol in the gulf of aden under the operational control of the western naval command , find herself once again in the thick of thing , thwart a multiple - boat piracy attack on 10 nov 11 .
the ship be escort a group of five merchant vessel through the irtc -lrb- internationally recognise transit corridor -rrb- when , at about 9 : 25 in the morning of 10th nov , she detect a group of five suspicious boat , speedily approach the merchant vessel of she group .
the warship immediately alter towards the suspicious vessel and challenge they .
on see the resolve evident in the warship action and probably mindful of the reputation for resolute action that the indian navy justly enjoy in such deployment , the pirate skiff reverse course and try to flee the area .
while two of they manage to get away , the sukanya successfully intercept the remain three and carry out well practice and professionally execute board - and - search action .
the three boat have a total of 26 somali crew onboard .
during the operation , six ak 47 rifle , 12 magazine and about 300 round of ammunition be find and confiscate .
in addition , the board party also find a host of other equipment such as grapnel , ladder and rope - handle glove all of which confirm they piratical intent .
the timely operation by sukanya result , once again , in foil the pirate intention of attack merchant vessel transit this busy sea lane through which over a hundred billion dollar of india external trade pass each year .
this be the fifth successful anti - piracy operation conduct by sukanya , in the course of she ongoing patrol mission in the gulf of aden , which commence in september .
the ship have , thus far , confiscate a total of 14 ak 47 rifle , 31 magazine and 923 round of ammunition , thereby ensure that the indian navy retain its standing as a force not to be trifle with , and remain at the forefront of anti - piracy operation , as a critical component of the international effort to curb piracy and ensure the safety and freedom of seaborne trade , even in this highly risk - prone area .
the wasilla bible church , the alaskan church make famous as be the religious outpost for fail vp candidate and alaska governor sarah palin have catch fire .
the '' suspicious '' fire devastate the church friday night , and official be consider arson among possibility .
a lady craft group be in the building when the fire break out , although no one be hurt .
palin release a statement after the fire and offer a apology to the assistant pastor '' if the incident be in any way connect to the undeserved negative attention the church have receive since she become a vice presidential candidate . '' .
burn baby , burn ?
estimated damage be in the vicinity of $ 1 million .
matanuska maid dairy building be uninsured .
august 8 , 2012 - 4 : 43 pm .
the fire that destroy the original matanuska maid dairy warehouse in palmer on tuesday take a piece of alaska '' s history .
the building date to 1935 , when the original matanuska valley colonist settle in alaska , and have be on the alaska association for historic preservation '' s list of endanger historic property for several year .
judi bittner , the state '' s historic preservation official , say the destruction of the building represent a big loss to the state '' s history and to the people of palmer .
the property be in private ownership by anchorage attorney william ingaldson .
palmer public safety director jon owen say tuesday that the city have not purchase the property , although there be plan to do so .
'' the building be uninsured , '' owen say .
the anchorage daily news report the value of the building at 380 , 600 .
the cause of the fire have not be determine .
authority be now say they suspect arson be to blame for friday night 's fire at wasilla bible church , where gov. sarah palin and she family attend .
it be a sad day when the hate , anger and vengeful action of a few overshadow we people here in alaska .
we do not know if the fire be the result of radical angry with palin , but we do know we governor have not be treat fairly .
for month i have be read the lie about we first family of alaska .
i have to endure watch on tv a appalling effigy of gov. palin , part of a halloween display in a yard in southern california .
the governor of california do nothing , the mayor do nothing , and the neighbor think it be '' cool . '' .
this effigy be a likeness of a woman swing by a noose in someone 's yard !
where be the outrage ?
then there be those who have blast the governor for she daughter 's pregnancy .
both have be brutally criticize , belittle and shame .
child will do what they want as teenager ; .
we parent try we best to instill good moral and value .
palin 's daughter 's upbringing have nothing to do with who we governor be or what she believe .
i be appal to hear comment like , '' well , she put herself in the limelight , so she deserve what she get . '' .
there have also be those who have ask if the governor be really trig 's mom ?
where have the fair and balanced reporting be on that '' story '' ?
it be one thing to disagree with sarah palin 's view or belief , but to tear she and she family apart to make you feel more superior , to make you feel good about you hatred , anger and lack of christianity , that be appalling .
i do hope palin 's church be not torch because of she belief .
she and she family have never do anything to warrant the outlandish action from she insensitive critic .
historic mat maid warehouse burn .
mat maid mop up .
remains of the mat maid warehouse smolder tuesday morning in palmer .
the fire be report at 3 : 33 a . m . and be under investigation by the palmer police and the state fire marshal .
a church be devastate by fire , which be attend by alaska gov. sarah palin on friday night in she hometown of wasilla .
accord to the church 's minister , '' we have no idea what cause it '' .
still , it be not specify that how many people be in the building at the time of the blaze .
the metal church building , which normally accommodate sunday congregation of up to 1,000 people , be heavily damage by flame and smoke .
the church service would be hold on schedule sunday in a nearby school .
tuesday , august 7 , 2012 .
farewell to another piece of mat maid .
fast - move fire destroy the historic matanuska maid warehouse early this morning .
the building be long vacant .
no injury be report .
firefighter arrive on scene could see the building be likely a total loss , so they focus on a bigger problem : make sure the blaze do reach the nearby , petroleum - loaded crowley maritime tank farm .
the first 9 - 1 - 1 call come at 3 : 33 a . m . from someone at valley hotel , palmer public safety director jon owen say this morning .
a total of 31 separate piece of firefighting apparatus respond to the blaze , include three ladder truck .
engine come from palmer fire department and mat - su central fire department , where responder muster to a all - call from emergency dispatcher .
palmer fire chief john mcnutt be the first person to get to the fire .
mcnutt drive around the 9 - acre mat maid complex and spot flame shoot out from below the eaves .
within minute , the roof be engulf , owen say .
crew operate under a surround and drown strategy suppress the fire .
but they goal be save the old warehouse building , build in the 1930 , owen say .
they focus instead be prevent the conflagration sure to follow if the fire reach the adjacent crowley maritime corp . fuel sale office next door , where all the petroleum product on site would pose a tremendous problem should they ignite , he say .
the palmer tank farm hold 100 , 000 gallon of petroleum product and serve as a distribution center for anchorage , palmer , wasilla , and all the matanuska valley , accord to crowley web site .
the fire be knock down by 6 : 40 a . m .
the warehouse use to be use for produce sell out of one end .
rindi remember walk through it with owner bill ingaldson a few year back ; during the visit , she pick up a old potato sack decorate with the matanuska maid in she skating costume .
palmerite may remember that former city manager bill allen hope to put a convention center on the property .
this be the second destructive fire at the mat maid complex .
a wind - whip arson fire set by three teenager destroy the hardware store in february , 2003 .
investigator be at the scene by 10 a . m . or so try to determine the cause of the fire ; find the ignition source be key when there no obvious heat source like a boiler , owen say .
anything suspicious will be follow up .
the investigation be be conduct by john bond , a inspector with the alaska state fire marshal office , and palmer police sgt . shayne la croix .
anyone with information about this morning fire be ask to call sgt . la croix at 745 - 4811 .
the wasilla bible church in wasilla , alaska be apparently attack by a arsonist last night .
the fire , which break out when several people be inside the church , do a estimate $ 1 million damage .
authority describe the fire as '' suspicious and as potential arson . '' .
the bible church 's head minister say , '' someone intentionally do it , but we do not know who and why . '' .
he decline to say whether the church have receive threat .
governor palin stop by the church this morning and '' tell a assistant pastor that she apologize if the incident be in any way connect to the undeserved negative attention the church have receive since she become a vice presidential candidate . '' .
give the insane hatred that democrat direct toward palin during the recent campaign , it would be easy to jump to the conclusion that the arson be the work of a liberal democrat .
but we do not know that for sure .
there be many possible motive , and arsonist do not necessarily need what would normally be regard as a motive .
it would be a good thing for the country if this particular crime do not turn out to be politically motivate .
historic dairy building destroy by fire .
publish : 2012 . 08 . 08 09 : 01 be .
a fire on tuesday destroy palmer historic matanuska maid dairy warehouse building , which be build in the 1930 when colonist arrive from the midwest to try they hand at farm in alaska .
jon owen , the city public safety director , say a call come in from the valley hotel at 3 : 33 a . m . from someone who see the vacant building across town on fire .
by the time fire crew arrive , flame could be see come out from under the eaves all the way around the building .
in the next minute or two , the entire roof be in flame , owen say .
firefighter work quickly to contain the blaze .
more than two dozen piece of firefighting equipment be bring to the scene , include some that be place between the warehouse building and a petroleum distribution company next door , owen say .
about 5 , 000 gallon of water a minute be pour on the fire .
it take about three hour to knock the fire down , but the building be destroy , he say .
the warehouse building , one of the oldest in palmer , have be vacant for year and be board up , palmer city clerk janette bower tell the associated press .
it be very , very sad , '' bower say .
the building be construct in 1935 , predate statehood by more than 20 year .
that be really old for alaska standard , '' bower say .
the city be negotiate to purchase the property , along with at least a half - dozen other that once be part of the matanuska maid dairy operation .
voter in 2009 approve a 3 million bond to buy the property , bower say .
but the negotiation be ongoing .
palmer do not own the property , bower say .
while the city have settle on a plan for the mat maid property , some idea have be bounce around , she say , include turn the property into a new city hall complex , or use they for a museum or theater art build .
bower say the colonist settle in the palmer area under the new deal to spur economic development during the great depression .
the idea be to see if there be agricultural opportunity to be have in alaska , bower say .
more than 200 family , mostly from wisconsin and minnesota , be bring to alaska under the matanuska colony project .
bower say the warehouse building be one of the first structure to be build .
the mat maid dairy start at that time as a dairy cooperative .
it be take over by the state in the mid - 1980s after its private owner go bankrupt .
the money - lose operation be subsidize by the state and shut down for good in december 2007 .
it appear for a time that the valley tradition of dairy farming also would be lose but it be revive in 2008 under a private operation call the matanuska creamery , which be successfully fill a niche market for fresh milk and cheese produce entirely by alaska farmer .
wasilla bible church , the home church of alaska gov. sarah palin and she family , receive a estimate $ 1 million in damage from a fire that be deliberately set friday night .
no one be injure , but several people , include two child , be inside the church when the blaze start .
palin spokesman bill mcallister say that palin tell a assistant pastor she be sorry if the fire be relate to the '' undeserved negative attention '' the church have receive since she become the republican vice presidential candidate earlier this year .
'' whatever the motive of the arsonist , the governor have faith in the scriptural passage that what be intend for evil will in some way be use for good , '' mcallister add .
saturday , august 24 , 2013 .
palin appointee under federal indictment .
methink somebody milk just go sour .
courtesy of adn .
a 57 - year - old wasilla woman have be indict by a federal grand jury on charge she defraud the state of alaska and lie to the u . s . department of agriculture during the operation of the now - defunct matanuska creamery .
the indictment also charge valley dairy ceo and investor karen b . olson with conceal the alleged criminal conduct of the former dairy manager , kyle beus .
a grand jury in december indict beus on charge he misuse federal grant money , and he await trial .
the charge against olson allege she fraudulently obtain a 430 , 000 state agriculture department loan to keep the valley dairy afloat by conceal its finances .
the indictment also say she submit false document to convince the usda in 2008 to waive its prohibition on use dairy and ice cream - make equipment at valley dairy as collateral on state loan .
the equipment be purchase in 2007 use federal grant that didn '' t allow the equipment to be sell or encumber without special authorization from the usda .
alaska dispatch have more here .
by the mid - 1980s , mat maid be falter , and a state - run corporation take over management .
it struggle until sarah palin become alaska governor .
she arrive on the scene shortly before the state board of agriculture and conservation , which have watch the dairy bleed cash for year , vote to deny it further loan .
with that move threaten to kill the dairy , palin fire the board and appoint another , which vote to give the dairy more money .
that go on until the new board realize , as do the old board , the dairy just could compete in the real world of modern - day alaska with cheaper milk ship in from the lower 48 .
enter beus , then a valley dairy farmer , and bob havemeister , another dairy farmer .
they form a joint venture to take over the equipment and operation of mat maid in a effort to keep it alive .
beus be the one who eventually end up with most of the equipment and set up a company call klondike creamery and candy , which briefly market ice cream in alaska .
it be not long , however , before it be roll into valley dairy - - a joint effort of beus , robert well and olson .
olson be the former alaska state executive director of the u . s . department of agriculture farm service agency , a job she hold from 1993 to 2001 .
olson have insist in a number of interview with alaska dispatch that the only interest she ever have be try to keep the dairy business alive in alaska .
after she join beus at valley dairy , the company begin effort to tap a 5 - million pool of usda money set aside for rural development .
beus be indict last year on charge he take at least 120 , 000 of that money for he own personal and discretionary use . '' .
where and when olson learn of he alleged activity be not explain in the indictment against she , but it say she devise a scheme to conceal the true nature of the valley dairy finances and the fraudulent activity of beus , and to obtain a loan from the arlf -lrb- alaska revolving loan fund -rrb- to keep the valley dairy , of which olson be a investor and employee , operating . '' .
as many of you undoubtedly know there be a rather suspicious fire that burn the old matanuska maid creamery to the ground .
-lrb- i know , right ? -rrb- .
if you be new to this particular palin scandal there be no better place to catch up then over at andrew halcro now defunct blog .
now some be suggest that this might finally be the straw that snap the back of palin uncanny ability to avoid incarceration .
however i would not count my egg too quickly , because while it seem that olsen have every reason to reduce she sentence by rat out she old boss , palin have somehow slip through the grasp finger of the fed a few time before .
so let stay tune and see how this play itself out .
sarah palin 's home church have have a million dollar damage do to it as it be set alight by suspect arsonist .
no one be injure when the blaze hit the wasilla bible church .
palin have apologise if it be connect with she campaign due to '' undeserved negative attention '' .
the fire chief have say a investigation be underway note that there have not be any recent threat to the church .
authority be unsure if there be a relevant connection between the fire and sarah palin 's campaign .
palin 's church damage in suspicious fire .
authority estimate the damages to the wasilla bible church at $ 1 million .
no one be injure in the fire last night , which be intentionally set while people , include two child , be inside .
the local fire chief say the fire '' be definitely suspicious . '' .
pastor larry kroon decline to say if the blaze be politically base or direct at palin , the failed republican vice presidential candidate .
he also decline to say whether the church have receive any recent threat .
palin stop by the church this morning .
she spokesman , bill mcallister , say palin tell a assistant pastor she apologize if the fire be connect to the '' undeserved negative attention '' the church have receive since she become the vice presidential candidate on aug. 29 .
alaska gov. sarah palin 's home church have be badly damage in a arson fire .
damages to the wasilla bible church be estimate at $ 1 million .
the fire chief say the fire '' be definitely suspicious . '' .
no one be hurt .
sarah palin 's family will have to attend church in a local school this morning after a fire rip through she church on friday evening .
the fire , estimate to have cause $ 1 million in damages to the wasilla bible church , have be label '' suspicious '' by jame steele , chief of the central mat-su fire department .
steele tell the anchorage daily news that investigator be look at the cause of the blaze as '' potential arson '' and say it be too early to link the fire to the exposure the church receive as a result of palin 's vice-presidential run .
'' right now there be no indication that we have that there be any connection there .
we just do not have any lead at all as far as the intent or motive in this , '' steele say .
the fire , the largest of the year for the department , '' be be set at the entrance of the church '' accord to the associated press and be battle by firefighter for nearly eight hour before it be fully extinguish .
report be that five woman be inside the building at the time of the fire .
no one be injure .
governor palin visit the church on saturday and she office later release a statement .
'' gov. palin stop by the church this morning , and she tell a assistant pastor that she apologize if the incident be in any way connect to the undeserved negative attention the church have receive since she become a vice-presidential candidate on aug. 29 .
whatever the motive of the arsonist , the governor have faith in the scriptural passage that what be intend for evil will in some way be use for good . '' .
palin be in juneau today , but the anchorage daily news say she child be plan on attend service at the makeshift church .
a overnight fire friday at alaska gov. sarah palin 's home church cause a estimate $ 1 million in damage , and investigator say it could be the work of a arsonist .
firefighter be call to wasilla bible church in wasilla , alaska , about 9:40 p.m. friday and find flame and smoke come out window at the back of the three-story structure , say jame steele , chief of the central mat-su fire department .
a arsonist have badly damage the church attend by the governor of alaska , sarah palin , and she have apologise if the fire be connect to '' undeserved negative attention '' from she failed campaign as the republican vice-presidential nominee .
no one be hurt in the fire on friday night although a handful of people , include two child , be inside the wasilla bible church , say the central mat-su fire chief , jame steele .
ms palin visit the church on saturday .
she spokesman , bill mcallister , say , '' whatever the motive of the arsonist , the governor have faith in the scriptural passage that what be intend for evil will in some way be use for good . '' .
mr steele say the blaze be be treat as arson , but he do not know of any threat to the church .
authority also do not know whether mr palin 's connection to the church be relevant to the fire .
'' it be hard to say at this point .
everything be just speculation , '' he say .
'' we have no information on intent or motive . '' .
damage to the church be estimate at $ us1 million -lrb- $ 1.52 million -rrb- , authority say .
mr steele say the fire be light at the entrance and move inward as a small group of woman be work on craft .
a fire alarm alert they to the fire .
firefighter fight the blaze in temperature of minus 17 degree .
the pastor , larry kroon , decline to say whether the church have receive any recent threat .
'' there be so many variable , '' he say .
'' i do not want to comment in that direction . '' .
the 1000-member evangelical church be the subject of scrutiny after mr palin be name john mccain 's republican party run mate .
early in she campaign , the church be criticise for promote a focus on the family '' love win out conference '' in anchorage .
it promise to '' help man and woman dissatisfy with live homosexually understand that same-sex attraction can be overcome '' .
wasilla , mr palin 's home town , be 64 kilometre north of anchorage .
authority suspect arson be the cause of a fire that cause a estimate $ 1 million in damage to gov. sarah palin 's church , report this morning 's anchorage daily news .
firefighter be call to wasilla bible church about 9:40 p.m. and find flame and smoke come out window at the back of the three-story structure , say jame steele , chief of the central mat-su fire department .
five woman , and possibly a couple of child , be inside the church work on craft , but everyone get out safely after a fire alarm alert they to trouble , steele say .
it be the biggest fire the department have see this year , and steele say as many as 35 to 40 volunteer firefighter come from across the region to battle the blaze .
a fire that cause more than $ 1 million in damage to alaska gov. sarah palin 's church in wasilla , alaska , may have be set by a arsonist , investigator say .
flame and smoke be come from the wasilla bible church friday evening when as many as 30 to 40 volunteer firefighter arrive at the three-story structure , and official say saturday they be treat the fire as a possible arson , the anchorage daily news report sunday .
'' we be definitely treat it as suspicious and as potential arson at this point , '' jame steele , chief of the central mat-su fire department , tell the newspaper , add nothing so far suggest any political motivation for the fire .
'' right now there be no indication that we have that there be any connection there , '' he say .
'' we just do not have any lead at all as far as the intent or motive in this . '' .
'' we have no idea what cause it , '' the rev. larry kroon of the wasilla bible church tell cnn .
palin apologize to church 's assistant pastor saturday if the fire be connect to she republican u.s. vice-presidential candidacy , a statement from she office say .
arson be suspect in the burning of the church former vice presidential candidate sarah palin attend .
she visit the church after the fire to apologize for any tie in with she recent national political exposure .
a lady ' craft group be meet in the church at the time of the fire .
'' we have no idea what cause it , '' the rev. larry kroon of the wasilla bible church say saturday , add that investigator be consider arson and other possible cause .
damage to the wasilla bible church be estimate at $ 1 million , authority say saturday .
no one be injure in the fire , which be presumably set friday night while a handful of people , include two child , be inside , accord to fire chief jame steele .
alaska gov. sarah palin , she husband todd and up to 1,000 fellow parishioner will worship in a local school this morning after a suspicious fire virtually destroy the wasilla bible church early saturday .
the rev. larry kroon say some parishioner be in the church on nicola avenue at the time the fire be notice but no one be injure .
firefighter baalaska republican governor and gop vice presidential candidate sarah palin whose church be burn saturday by suspect arsonttle for about eight hour in minus-20 degree temperature to completely extinguish the blaze that begin at the front door .
the former republican vice presidential candidate go to the church saturday to apologize to pastor in case the estimate $ 1 million fire damages , suspect as arson , be '' in any way connect to the undeserved negative attention the church have receive '' since the governor 's involvement with john mccain 's presidential campaign .
the 30-year-old congregation in wasilla , about 40 mile north of anchorage , have move into its new church just 30 month ago .
church official say they expect to hold service at the wasilla middle school for the foreseeable future during repair .
a '' suspicious '' fire devastate the church attend by alaska gov. and former vice presidential candidate sarah palin on friday night in she hometown of wasilla , the church 's minister say .
alaska gov. sarah palin reportedly apologize for the possibility the fire be relate to she nomination .
'' we have no idea what cause it , '' the rev .
larry kroon of the wasilla bible church say saturday , add that investigator be consider arson and other possible cause .
a lady ' craft group be in the building when the fire break out , but they get out safely , kroon say .
'' no one be hurt , '' he say .
central mat-su fire department chief jame steele say the department be '' treat it as suspicious and as potential arson at this point '' but do not elaborate , the anchorage daily news report .
the newspaper say palin release a statement after the fire in which she say she stop by the church saturday morning and offer a apology to the assistant pastor '' if the incident be in any way connect to the undeserved negative attention the church have receive since she become a vice presidential candidate . '' .
steele say that as many as 40 firefighter from he and neighbor department fight the blaze , which start about 9:40 p.m. friday -lrb- 1:40 a.m. et saturday -rrb- .
firefighter be on the scene deal with hot spot until about 5 a.m. saturday , the anchorage daily news report .
the metal church building , which normally accommodate sunday congregation of up to 1,000 people , be heavily damage by flame and smoke , kroon say .
'' the fire investigator and insurance people be there now .
there be definitely a lot of damage .
i have hear the figure of $ 1 million , but i do not know for sure , '' he say .
kroon say he be not at the church when the fire break out and would not discuss what any of the church member who be there have report to he .
he would not specify how many people be in the building at the time of the blaze .
'' they be all adult , and they all get out .
we be try not to talk about specifics while investigator be still work on find out what happen . '' .
kroon say the nondenominational church , which he describe as '' just a local community church , '' be about 30 year old and the church building itself be about 2 year old .
the pastor say church service would be hold on schedule sunday in a nearby school .
gov. sarah palin 's home church be badly damage by arson , lead ms. palin to apologize if the fire be connect to undeserved negative attention ' the church receive during she campaign as the republican vice-presidential nominee .
damage to the wasilla bible church be estimate at $ 1 million , authority say saturday .
no one be injure in the fire , which be set friday night while a handful of people , include two child , be inside , accord to the central mat-su fire chief , jame steele .
chief steele say that the blaze be be investigate as a arson but that he do not know of any recent threat to the church .
the authority also do not know whether ms. palin 's connection to the church be relevant to the fire , he say .
chief steele would not comment on the means use to set the fire .
the church 's pastor , larry kroon , decline to say whether the church have receive any recent threat .
ms. palin , who be not at the church at the time of the fire , stop by saturday .
she spokesman , bill mcallister , say in a statement that the alaska governor tell a assistant pastor she be sorry if the fire be connect to she candidacy .
'' whatever the motive of the arsonist , '' mr. mcallister say , '' the governor have faith in the scriptural passage that what be intend for evil will in some way be use for good . '' .
the 1,000-member evangelical church be the subject of intense scrutiny after ms. palin be name senator john mccain 's run mate .
early in she campaign , the church be criticize for promote in a sunday bulletin a focus on the family '' love win out conference '' in anchorage .
the conference promise to '' help man and woman dissatisfy with live homosexually understand that same-sex attraction can be overcome . '' .
the fire be set at the entrance of the church and move inward as a small group of woman be work on craft , chief steele say .
the group be alert to the fire by a alarm .
outside temperature be minus 20 as firefighter battle the blaze .
arson in alaska palin '' pattern '' ?
november 20 , 2012 .
there be a old say that '' once be chance ; twice be coincidence ; the third time be a pattern .
it be probably '' chance '' when the wasilla bible church be burn , and arson be suspect .
it be determine that a acelerant be place around the perimeter of the church .
no arrest be make in that fire .
the interesting part of that blaze report that it didn '' t harm the larger area of the church where worship service be hold .
instead it be , accord to sarah palin , the office where church record be store , that be destroy .
if there be church record that would reveal something sarah palin didn '' t want uncovered , the destruction of those record by fire would solve that problem .
when arson be suspect in the burning of the house of dar miller it be probably just coincidence .
it be probably just coincidence that sarah palin be not supportive of people who be homosexual , and it appear dar be lesbian , and live with she '' partner . '' .
of course it be not coincidence that dar miller be in she home when the fire break out and be burn so badly she die the next day .
it be not coincidence that she dog die in the fire as they live with she .
it be unusual that the dog die at the foot of she bed , instead of by the door , try to get out of the house .
it be probably just coincidence that dar miller have previously work at the mat - su regional hospital as a neo - natal nurse , which be the same hospital where trig be purportedly bear .
the curious thing be that there be never a arrest make in that fire either .
the suggest be that dar miller have probably be smoking in bed and catch herself and the bed on fire .
who make that suggestion ?
do they know that dar didn '' t smoke ?
-lrb- accord to ottoline comment in this blog -rrb- .
the fire that burn so hot that it '' char beam and melted picture on the wall '' doesn '' t sound like a fire cause by a cigarette in bed .
the troubling '' pattern '' emerge as there be report of yet another fire in the small community of palmer alaska .
this time the fire occur at the matanuska maid creamery .
you remember .
that dairy be the subject of a thorough investigation by andrew halcro .
andrew '' s suggestion be that sarah palin have fraudulently divert large sum of money to friend and high school buddy .
within a week of the dissolution of the last entity to run the matanuska maid creamery , its building burn to the ground .
arson be likely , give the fact that the building be without electrical or gas connection and the fire break out at 3 : 30 be .
all three fire appear to be the result of arson .
all three fire occur in or around the small town of alaska where sarah palin life .
all three fire may have confer some benefit on sarah palin .
when the church fire destroy church record , i suspect foul play , but know that it be probably just chance .
when dar miller '' be home be burn and she be kill by the blaze , i suspect foul play , but know that it could be merely coincidence .
now that the dairy have burn , and foul play seem clear , there be a unmistakable pattern .
give the fact that none of these crime have be '' solve , '' a pattern be emerge .
i wonder how long it will be before the anchorage police department will issue a press release state that there be not one scintilla of evidence connect any of the member of the palin family with these case of arson ?
gov. sarah palin 's home church have be badly damage in a suspicious fire .
larry kroon , pastor of the wasilla bible church , estimate damages at more than $ 1 million to the church .
kroon decline to say if the blaze be politically base or direct at palin , the failed republican vice presidential candidate .
kroon say the fire break out friday night while a small group of woman be work on craft .
they be alert to the blaze by a fire alarm .
kroon say he be call and by the time he get to the church , smoke be pour out of the building .
sprinkler keep the fire from spread beyond office and classroom .
authority be not immediately comment , but kroon say he be be tell the fire be be investigate as a crime .
arson suspect in fire that destroy alaska mat - maid dairy .
august 7 , 2012 .
only about a week after alaska official formally move to dissolve the last entity to run the historic matanuska maid creamery , the historic structure which once house part of that historic business burn to the ground in palmer .
arson be suspect .
you not call it arson yet , '' palmer public safety director jon owen say , but the fact that the 86 - year - old structure be without electrical or gas connection make the 3 : 30 a . m . fire highly suspicious .
there be no lightning strike , '' owen say .
it be a pretty morning in palmer when a visitor to the valley hotel walk out at 3 : 33 a . m . and spy the desert building nearby in flame .
by the time local police arrive to investigate , owen say , there be no hope of save the structure , and the fireman who arrive soon thereafter focus they effort on keep flame from spread to a nearby fuel storage facility .
a good portion of the fire - fight equipment in the matanuska valley be call to help , more than two dozen unit .
at one time , owen say , firefighter be pour 5 , 000 gallon of water per minute onto the blaze as history burn .
designate as national historic landmark , the mat maid building date back to the mid 1930 during president franklin d . roosevelt new deal effort to wrench the country out of the great depression .
they be build shortly after the matanuska colony be establish by the roosevelt administration to relocate struggle american and give they a new start in the last frontier .
a farmer cooperative at first , mat maid become a state - run business that eventually die despite the best effort of former gov . sarah palin to keep it alive .
now a conservative icon , palin be anything but in 2007 when the creamery corporation , '' a arm of the alaska board of agriculture and conservation , vote to close down a financially struggle mat maid .
palin respond by firing the board .
she then replace board member with she crony .
they pump another 600 , 000 in state money into mat maid , but it do help .
in july alone , they lose 300 , 000 , '' say anchorage businessman and blogger andrew halcro , a sometimes critic of palin .
by the end of 2007 , it be obvious even to the palin administration that mat maid could survive , and the state be force to shut it down although the creamery corporation survive .
it be only now go out of business .
dissolution of the corporation have take four year , '' robert mcfarlane , a assistant state attorney general say tuesday .
in the interim , a new creamery grow up in the matanuska - susitna valley to take the place of mat maid .
however , valley dairy inc . , seem to have many of the same problem that beset its predecessor .
creamery lack the cheddar .
at the start of the month , valley dairy inc . , which do business as the matanuska creamery , tell the agriculture board it be go to stop make payment on its hundred of thousand of dollar in debt to the state agriculture revolving loan fund -lrb- arlf -rrb- .
we will be make no further payment on we arlf note until we have be able to move to a suitable location and secure a minimum raw milk supply , '' karen olson , president and ceo of valley dairy , notify the panel on aug . 1 .
all we attempt to deal with we arlf loan have only result in a moment reprieve follow by further threat . '' .
a copy of the letter have be obtain by dispatch .
in it , olson blame the state for alaska dairy problem .
there be some who would say that matanuska creamery have be a victim of its own idealism and commitment to keep the dairy industry alive , '' she write , and they would be correct .
but have we ignore we commitment back in 2007 and since , there would be no dairy industry . '' .
the problem specific to the matanuska creamery date to the two - year reign of sarah palin , but the problem for the dairy industry in alaska go back way before she administration .
they be root in state - sponsor effort to create a industry instead of let market work .
go heavy on milk future .
mat maid do fine for 23 year without one single dime from the state , '' halcro say .
that change at the start of the 1980s when the state try to supercharge farming across cook inlet from anchorage by create the point mackenzie dairy project .
mat maid , a farmer cooperative begin in 1936 , try to help .
it borrow 2 million dollar from the agriculture fund to expand its facility to handle all the milk that be suppose to come from the farm .
when the farmer falter , mat maid be leave short of milk .
without enough milk to sell - - either as milk or cream or yogurt or cheese - - mat maid could generate enough profit to service its debt .
in 1983 , it be force to file for bankruptcy .
the state step in to run the company to protect its debt .
two year later , the cooperative sign over to the loan fund its property and asset to settle a 5 . 3 million debt .
three year after that , the state establish the creamery corporation as a arm of the loan fund to run mat maid .
it struggle along for almost a decade .
the creamery corporation have operate without financial assistance from the arlf since 1988 and continue to provide a return on investment thorough increase equity value , '' argue a white paper produce for the alaska department of natural resource in 2006 .
mat maid be then value at 5 million , down from a peak value of 5 . 3 million but above the 2002 value of 4 . 9 million .
the white paper note effort to privatize the operation in 1986 and again in 1990 have fail .
there be no bid .
the state be more successful in get rid of the historic creamery building in palmer although that , too , be a struggle .
they be lease with a option to buy in 1996 , but that deal fall through .
a restoration company call heritage property pick the building up in 1997 , and in 2001 announce plan to convert they into office and store , or apartment , while maintain they historic faades .
that idea , too , fall through , and the property be finally sell at bid .
it be purchase by anchorage attorney bill ingaldson .
he be not return call on tuesday .
ingaldson , as well as the state division of agriculture and other property owner , have be in negotiation with the city of palmer on the sale of what be call the old matanuska maid block . '' .
it be a area of about 8 . 7 acre near downtown palmer that include , until tuesday , the old creamery , a historic hatchery , a cinderblock power house , a residency , a building housing the office of the palmer art council , and crowley petroleum distributor , which maintain the fuel storage facility .
palmer voter in 2010 approve a 3 million bond to pay for purchase of the property .
there be hope of restore the building as a tourist attraction .
it could have detail the success and failure of those sort of collective effort sometimes attack by palin .
mat maid the co - op be a profitable business that once produce and sell about half the milk in alaska .
mat maid the state - own corporation be a company that struggle from the start and sell a lot of milk produce in the lower 48 .
in 2004 , 39 percent of the milk produce at mat maid be from alaska producer , '' the white paper say .
the other 61 percent be ship in from outside to be package and sell as alaska milk in a effort by mat maid to maintain market share in hope the cow on the state - sponsor farm at point mackenzie would one day start produce .
they never really do .
over time the mackenzie property begin to shift into the hand of land speculator anticipate some far - future wealth if a bridge be ever build across knik arm to allow for creation of a new anchorage bedroom community .
kind of a good question .
it all kind of a long and complicated story go way back , '' say ed fogel , the deputy commissioner of natural resource in charge of the agriculture division .
he could hazard a guess on how much money the state have lose on mat maid and associate agriculture project over the year .
that kind of a good question , '' he say .
darcy davy , a agriculture student at the university of alaska fairbanks , in 2007 author a senior thesis calculate money spend on agriculture project in the state .
davy write that over 76 million -lrb- in 2006 dollar -rrb- be spend on the project .
even more million of dollar be spend on the arlf loan to farmer . '' .
it be debatable , '' she write , whether those fund expend be worth the benefit create . '' .
davy examine not only point mackenzie and mat maid , but the delta barley project and a effort to produce red meat in the nenana area of the interior .
she report note that the point mac agriculture project get almost 10 million in direct appropriation .
it be unclear how many million more exactly be spend prop up mat maid .
after the fire , and the pend dissolution of the creamery corporation , about all that will remain be the mat maid trademark , a ice - skating princess in a fur hat .
the state own that , '' say fogel .
as the most durable legacy of mat maid , the trademark could prove valuable , though fogel be sure how the state could use it .
maybe it could festoon the 100 , 000 pound of matanuska creamery cheese the valley dairy put up to back one of its state loan .
sarah palin 's church in wasilla , alaska go up in flame this weekend .
the fire start friday night while a handful of people , include a woman 's craft group and two child , be inside wasilla bible church .
no one be hurt .
the blaze be be investigate as a arson .
on saturday , the alaska governor say she apologize if the incident be in any way connect to '' undeserved negative attention '' bring on by she failed bid for the vice presidency of the united state .
authority believe the fire be set at the entrance of the building and move inward before set off a fire alarm .
damage to the church be estimate at one-million dollar .
matanuska maid dairy building burn down .
august 07 , 2012 .
the old matanuska maid dairy building in palmer be nearly destroy by a fire early tuesday morning , accord to palmer official .
john owen , the city public safety director , say dispatcher get a call shortly after 3 : 30 a . m . tuesday that the vacate building be on fire .
crew arrive to find flame completely engulf the structure .
crew from both palmer fire and the mat - su central fire department respond to the blaze , use at least two ladder truck as well as a number of other apparatus .
the fire be extinguish by 7 a . m . , after fire crew attack it from all side .
owen say the building will likely be a total loss .
no one be believe to be inside the building , and the fire marshal have be call to investigate .
providentially , nobody be injure , but a estimate one million dollar in damage be do to wasilla bible church friday night , in a fire that begin while people , include child , be inside .
providentially , nobody be injure , but a estimate one million dollar in damage be do to wasilla bible church friday night , in a fire that begin while people , include child , be inside .
the fire be be investigate as a possible case of arson .
this would not fit bill ayer ' definition of terrorism , since no one be kill .
more like protest that just go a little too far in a matter of mere youthful excess .
the governor of alaska have apologize if '' undeserved attention '' focus on wasilla bible church cause hater to set a fire there .
the american people be treat to far more media attention on sarah palin 's church than on barack obama 's involvement in corrupt illinois politics .
the congregant of wasilla bible church have we deep sympathy .
if this be arson , it be a monstrous crime .
can you imagine the media outcry if arson be suspect to have cause a million dollar worth of arson damage to trinity unite church of christ ?
overnight fire destroy historic matanuska maid building .
no injury report .
story create : aug 7 , 2012 at 9 : 56 be akdt .
alaska - shortly after 3 : 30 tuesday morning someone call 911 to and report a fire at the matanuska maid building in downtown palmer .
palmer fire & rescue , along with the mat - su central fire department , respond .
palmer fire & rescue chief john mcnutt saw flame emerge from under the building eaves when he arrive , and soon the entire roof be engulf in flame .
a total of 31 fire apparatus arrive to fight the fire , and it be extinguish by 6 : 40 a . m . the building be a total loss accord to the city of palmer .
the state fire marshal office be assist in the investigation of the cause of the fire , and anyone with knowledge of the fire be ask to call palmer police sergeant shayne la croix at 907 - 745 - 4811 .
sarah palin actually apologize after the evangelical church she attend be nearly destroy by arsonist -- all because she still harbor guilt over she failed vp run .
official estimate the fire cause around $ 1 million in damage to the wasilla bible church -- which sarah hope be not in connection to the '' undeserved negative attention '' from she failed campaign , accord to the sun time news group .
the police have no lead at this time -- and john mccain have not be name as a suspect .
fire destroy historic mat maid dairy building in palmer .
publish : august 7 , 2012 .
warehouse be one of the last original building remain from the matanuska colony .
the matanuska maid block building , one of the oldest building in palmer , burn to the ground in a spectacular fire tuesday morning .
the wooden structure at 325 e . dahlia ave . be know as the old mat maid warehouse . '' .
it be build in 1935 , the same year that the first farm family arrive as part of the federal government matanuska colony project .
a 911 caller report the fire at 3 : 33 a . m .
palmer fire and rescue chief john mcnutt arrive and see fire under the eaves of the building .
within one minute or two , the whole roof be ablaze , '' say palmer public safety director jon owen .
after a quick survey of the scene , owen say , mcnutt main concern be keep the fire from spread to the heating oil store next door at the crowley fuel distribution center .
the mat - su central fire department join palmer firefighter with man and equipment .
photo show the entire two - story building seem to go up in flame at once , with a ball of fire boil into the air 20 foot above the roof .
owen say a total of 31 fire truck , emergency vehicle and other equipment be eventually on scene .
three aerial , '' ladder with hose , fight the fire from above , two of which be position between the fire and crowley .
at its height , 5 , 000 gallon of water be be pour onto the blaze every minute .
it be a testament to the palmer water system , '' owen say .
we could have have a -lrb- larger -rrb- conflagration . '' .
a crowley employee be at the office within minute , say terminal manager jasper hall , ready to move the fuel delivery truck out of harm way .
the terminal mainly hold heating oil , he say .
by 6 : 40 a . m . the fire be under control , owen say .
by noon , small cloud of smoke still rise from the pile of ash and a few char upright timber teeter over the ruin .
the building , which the city of palmer have value at about 380 , 600 , be a total loss .
anchorage lawyer william ingaldson , the building owner , be there to inspect the damage .
he say he have own the property for six or seven year .
he estimate the size of the structure at 12 , 000 square foot .
none of it be insure , '' he say .
be assume it arson or vandalism . '' .
there be no report of injury .
the building be vacant and not in use at the time of the fire .
the structure make the alaska association for historic preservation list of 10 most endanger property in the state for the past four year .
it be also know as the colony project warehouse because it be build as part of the federal matanuska colony project during the new deal era .
family be bring to palmer and give land .
they form the matanuska valley farmer cooperate association .
the warehouse store feed and other supplies for the farmer .
the matanuska colony have a mixed record .
within five year , half of the settler give up and leave .
but dairy operation prove successful .
at a time when shipment of food from the state could take a month , valley producer supply fresh milk to customer along the rail belt .
the co - op become the matanuska maid corporation .
in the 1950s , dairy operator fight a losing battle against the importation of reconstitute milk , which allow powdered milk to be mix with fresh milk and sell at a lower price .
as transportation improve , it become cheaper to ship milk from the lower 48 .
the state point mackenzie project , design to rescue alaska dairy industry , turn out to be a colossal failure .
mat maid file for bankruptcy in november 1983 .
the state take over and run the business until economic pressure force it to close in december 2007 .
even before then , mat maid asset be be put on the auction block or abandon .
the trading post , also build in 1935 , be beautifully restore and still open for business as dahlia street market , on the other side of the street .
but the matanuska maid creamery building , which stand between the street and the warehouse in the old day , be burn down by teenager in 2003 .
grass and cottonwood now cover the site .
the long warehouse boast a full - length porch and distinctive chevron pattern at the gable end of the roof .
it have its own railroad siding .
three cupola draw light into the building .
a recessed entry let worker unload wagon or truck out of the wind .
a historical marker read , these building be the heart and economic center of palmer and the colony . '' .
the old warehouse be weather and batter on the outside , ingaldson say .
but inside , there be all this beautiful timber .
clear , old - growth fir .
not a knot in it .
cedar tongue - and - groove floor . '' .
the building still store relic from its glory day , he say , canvas potato bag and container for cheese product .
ingaldson say he have explore different option for develop the building , which be not be use at the time of the fire .
idea include turn it into apartment , shop and office for nonprofit group or as part of a convention area .
there be lot of really good plan we have , '' he say .
it be a historic building with lot of possibility .
you not replace that .
it devastate . '' .
the state fire marshall office be help investigate the fire .
palmer police ask anyone with information about how the fire start to call sgt . shayne la croix at 745 - 4811 .
the church alaska gov.sarah palin attend be badly damage by fire friday night , and investigator suspect arson .
palin , who be also the republican vice presidential candidate , apologize if the fire be in any way connect to the attention the church receive during the campaign .
the fire cause more than $ 1 million in damages , the anchorage daily news report .
firefighter be call to the blaze at around 9:40 p.m .
friday night .
the arrive to find smoke and flame come out of the window at the back of the three-story building .
five adult woman and possibly two child be inside the church , but escape unharmed , central mat-su fire department chief jame steele tell reporter .
it take about 40 volunteer firefighter to knock down the blaze , steele say .
matanuska maid building burn down .
august 7 , 2012 - 5 : 46 pm .
alaska lose part of its history on tuesday , when a pre - dawn blaze demolish the old matanuska maid dairy warehouse building in palmer .
the matanuska maid dairy building be locate on the nine acre site on which stand many structure date back to colony day .
in the afternoon sun , only char rubble remain .
'' and it '' s , of course , as you can see , a total loss , '' palmer public safety director jon owen say at the site of the fire tuesday .
'' we have a light breeze , as you '' ve notice , have pick up .
and the breeze have ignite a hot spot over there .
we '' be just make sure that the scene be safe .
we crew be go to be out here all day . '' .
palmer fireman be hose down hotspot on the rubble of the old mat maid building late tuesday , after the early morning fire demolish the antique structure in palmer '' s historic district .
owen say the fire call come in at 3 : 30 a . m .
'' the palmer fire chief and the palmer police arrive within a minute or two , '' owen say .
'' the fire chief drive around the perimeter of this nine acre city block and see fire come out from under the eaves of this building . '' .
'' within a moment or two , the entire roof be engulf in flame . '' .
owen say palmer and mat su central fire department respond with ladder truck , to allow firefighter to attack the blaze from above .
he say the fireman also have to protect nearby building .
'' it '' s call surround and drown , when you be fight from the air , '' owen say .
'' and the big thing be we have to protect crowley petroleum , from the fire from spread to the gas and the petroleum product that be store at crowley petroleum , right next store here , because of the danger of a entire conflagration . '' .
state fire marshall john bond survey the scene tuesday afternoon to help determine the cause of the fire .
not much be leave of the building except some char wooden beam and metal remnant which have plunge into the building '' s basement .
the heat of the blaze be so intense it melt the paint off nearby car .
the old building be in private ownership .
last year , palmer voter approve a bond measure allow the city to purchase the historic district contain the mat maid building and several other wooden structure .
those plan have not be finalize yet .
owen say it will be about a month before a final determination as to the cause of the fire be know .
director owen say no injury have be report in the blaze .
he say there be no power or gas on in the building , nor be lighten a possible cause .
a fire that rip through a waitrose store in surrey be be treat as '' potentially suspicious '' , police say .
more than 50 firefighter tackle the blaze which begin on the roof of the supermarket in banstead , and resident nearby be evacuate as a precaution .
police say : '' the fire progress rapidly through the store which be almost totally destroy .
it be be treat as potentially suspicious '' .
major fire at waitrose in wellington .
july 21 , 2013 , 2 : 21 pm bst .
a large fire break out at the waitrose supermarket in wellington town centre this morning -lrb- july 21 -rrb- .
fire at waitrose in wellington .
sunday , 21 july 2013 .
a fire have badly damage the waitrose supermarket in wellington high street .
eight crew fight the blaze which break out in the early hour of sunday morning .
it be not know how long the store will be close .
fire and police unit be still at the scene of a fire which gut a waitrose supermarket in surrey .
more than 50 firefighter tackle the blaze at the store in high street , banstead , which break out on the roof at about 2045 gmt on friday .
sixty resident be move from they home , while premise nearby suffer smash window and smoke damage .
no-one be injure in the fire , which be be treat by police as '' potentially suspicious '' .
road in the area be close until about 1630 gmt on saturday .
the alarm be raise after a cctv operator notice smoke come from the roof .
a statement from waitrose say damage to the building have be extensive but the store would be rebuild .
surrey police say firefighter , along with two fire tender , and police officer would remain at the scene until monday .
21 july 2013 last update at 11 : 11 gmt .
waitrose fire in wellington town centre tackle .
crew from devon and somerset fire and rescue have tackle a blaze at a supermarket in a somerset town .
the fire service be call at 06 : 00 bst to the waitrose store in high street , wellington , on sunday .
half the roof at the entrance of the building have collapse but the main building be in intact with only smoke damage , fire crew say .
matt goodman , from the fire service , say : it would appear the fire start on the outside of the building . '' .
it then quickly spread to the roof so there be a significant amount of damage to the roof , but thankfully due to the early action of the wellington crew we could get a large weight of response to the scene .
have be able to prevent it spread to other area of the building , so the main store on the inside have get a reasonably small amount of smoke damage . '' .
engineer be call to switch off the electricity supply to the building .
a spokesman for waitrose say : luckily no - one have be hurt and we be very grateful to the fire service and police for they prompt and professional help . '' .
a investigation into the cause of the fire have begin .
a waitrose store be reduce to ruin after a blaze be treat by police as '' potentially suspicious '' .
more than 50 firefighter with 10 fire engine fight the blaze which virtually destroy the store in banstead , surrey .
it break out in the roof at around 9pm on friday , force a number of resident live nearby to be temporarily evacuate .
a surrey police spokeswoman say : '' the fire have progress rapidly through the store which be almost totally destroy .
it be be treat as potentially suspicious . '' .
anyone with information be ask to call police on 08451252222 08451252222 08451252222 or crimestopper anonymously on 0800555111 0800555111 0800555111 .
23 july 2013 last update at 13 : 42 gmt .
waitrose wellington fire : man deny arson .
a man have deny arson follow a fire at a somerset supermarket early on sunday .
robert pitman , 24 , be accuse of set fire to the waitrose store in wellington shortly after 06 : 00 bst .
half of the entrance roof at the shop collapse during the blaze .
mr pitman , of high street , wellington , enter a not guilty plea at taunton deane magistrate and be remand in custody to appear before taunton crown court on 19 august .
police be treat a fire which have destroy a waitrose supermarket in banstead in surrey as '' potentially suspicious '' .
more than 50 firefighter have be try to control the fire which break out in the roof of the building .
peter guest , assistant chief fire officer at surrey fire and rescue service say the building be '' a total loss '' .
22 july 2013 last update at 17 : 50 gmt .
man charge with arson over waitrose fire in wellington .
a man have be charge with arson after a fire at the waitrose supermarket in wellington , somerset .
robert pitman , 24 , from the town be due to appear before taunton deane magistrate court on tuesday .
half of the roof at the entrance of the store in the high street collapse during the blaze , shortly after 06 : 00 bst on sunday .
no - one be injure in the fire .
the main building remain closed .
a waitrose supermarket in surrey have be destroy in a fire .
people live near the store on high street in banstead be make to leave they home , and surround road be close , police say .
more than 50 firefighter tackle the blaze , which break out on the roof of the supermarket at about 2045 gmt .
assistant chief fire officer peter guest describe the building as a '' total loss '' .
police be treat the fire as '' potentially suspicious '' .
'' the fire grow very rapidly and there be a large explosion and the fire then grow in intensity and scale to such a point that the building would be impossible to save , '' mr guest say .
'' the crew have work extremely hard ... to protect the surrounding building to ensure that this fire do not spread further , but i be afraid the building here be a total loss . '' .
mr guest add that no-one have be injure in what be a serious incident .
the alarm be raise after a cctv operator notice smoke come from the roof .
a surrey police spokeswoman say : '' the fire have progress rapidly through the store which be almost totally destroy .
'' people be ask to avoid the high street area if at all possible . '' .
a investigation be take place into the cause of the fire , which be still burn and be tackle by firefighter on saturday morning .
a statement from waitrose say damage to the building have be extensive but the store would be rebuild .
'' we have make available a distress fund for local resident and staff affect , and regret any inconvenience cause to they as well as the wider community and trader , '' it add .
wellington supermarket fire .
a large fire have destroy much of a supermarket in somerset .
crew be call to the waitrose building on wellington high street just after 6am .
ten fire engine be tackle the last of the blaze which begin on the roof of the store in banstead , surrey , before 9 .
resident nearby be evacuate as a precaution .
a surrey police spokeswoman say tonight : '' surrey police and surrey fire and rescue be currently at the scene of a large fir e at a waitrose store in high street , banstead , which be be treat as potentially suspicious . '' .
'' police be alert to a fire on the roof at 8.49 this evening .
'' the fire have progress rapidly through the store which be almost totally destroy .
'' local road closure close to the high street have be put in place and resident live close to the fire be currently be evacuate .
'' around 10 fire service pump be in attendance at the scene .
no one be believe to be injure at this time . '' .
'' people be ask to avoid the high street area if at all possible . '' .
anyone with information be ask to call police on 08451252222 08451252222 08451252222 or crimestopper anonymously on 0800555111 0800555111 0800555111 .
9 : 53 am , mon 22 jul 2013 .
latest on waitrose supermarket fire .
the site manager at the waitrose supermarket in wellington that have be damage by fire , say it will take a couple of day to assess how much work need to be do .
resident evacuate from they home after a huge fire at a waitrose store in banstead on friday night have be allow to return to they home .
around 60 people spend the evening at a local day care centre after be evacuate from they home near the supermarket in the high street .
they be initially send to banstead baptist church after the blaze break out about 8.40 .
police say they want to thank resident and local business for they patience and assistance during the evacuation .
the alarm be raise after a cctv operator notice smoke come from the roof of the store .
high wind mean the fire spread rapidly through the waitrose , which be almost totally destroy .
other premise suffer some damage , such as smash window and smoke damage .
the fire be still burn on saturday morning .
investigator have since be sift through the rubble to find the cause of the fire , which police have say they be treat as '' potentially suspicious . '' .
many nearby road be cordon off and police say on saturday they be likely to remain closed for some time .
anyone with any information about the fire be ask to contact surrey police on 08451252222 08451252222 08451252222 or crimestopper anonymously on 0800555111 0800555111 .
10 : 24 am , mon 22 jul 2013 .
fire at waitrose supermarket may have be arson .
police be continue to investigate a fire at a waitrose supermarket in wellington .
staff be today turn away customer .
shopper have be arrive at the supermarket unaware of the fire at the weekend .
police say it may have be arson .
a huge fire have almost totally destroy a waitrose store in banstead .
fire crew and police officer be call to the high street premise shortly before 9pm on friday after a cctv operator notice smoke come from the building 's roof .
the blaze , which be be treat by police as '' potentially suspicious '' , spread quickly through the store as the flame be fan by high wind .
sixty local resident have to be evacuate from they home , initially to a nearby church and later to a local day care centre , but they have all be allow to return by saturday evening .
a police spokeswoman say other premise suffer smash window and smoke damage .
road around the area , include banstead high street itself , be close for some time , but the spokeswoman say they be all reopen by 4.30 on saturday .
she add : '' the focus for today -lsb- saturday -rsb- have be to maximise the safety of the public , minimise disruption to the community and return normality to the area .
'' surrey police would particularly like to thank the local community and those local group and individual who have work alongside the emergency service to look after the welfare of personnel and member of the community affect . '' .
a statement from waitrose say : '' damage to the building be extensive , however it be too early to confirm the cause .
no-one have be injure .
'' the store will be rebuild ... we will be in a position to understand how long that might take once the full extent of damage have be assess .
'' we have make available a distress fund for local resident and staff affect , and regret any inconvenience cause to they as well as the wider community and trader . '' .
fire and police unit be due to remain at the scene until at least monday .
anyone with any information about the fire be ask to contact surrey police on 08451252222 08451252222 08451252222 , or call crimestopper anonymously on 0800555111 0800555111 .
major fire at supermarket .
sunday , july 21 , 2013 .
fire crew from tiverton and cullompton be this morning call in to help fight a major blaze at the waitrose supermarket in wellington .
the fire have destroy a large section of the store and fire crew and investigator be still on the scene .
two engine be send to the store after several member of the public call emergency service at 6am .
when they arrive they call in a additional six engine , a aerial platform and a incident command vehicle .
a corner of the building measure 50m by 50m contain food be well alight .
by 6 . 30am the fire have be contain use water and foam and police have be call .
half a hour later a second aerial platform be call in . and hydrant be be use for extra water .
police advise local resident to shut all door and window .
just before 8am crew request the attendance of a incident support unit from yeovil for additional drinking water , firefighter welfare and salvage equipment .
by 8 . 30am crew be use thermal imaging camera to identify hotspot and a investigation into the cause of the fire be under way .
a huge fire have destroy the waitrose store in banstead high street .
the fire , which be be treat as suspicious , break out in the roof of the store at 8.49 on friday night and quickly spread to the rest of the building .
dozen of people be evacuate from they home and spend the night in a nearby church and day care centre .
they begin return to they property at 10am today , saturday .
the fire be spot by a cctv operator who see smoke come from the roof of the building .
high wind mean the flame quickly spread throughout the building .
fire crew bring the blaze under control within the store late last night , but it be expect to continue burn for some hour yet .
police and firefighter remain at the scene this morning .
road in the immediate area be expect to remain closed for a number of hour , and police have urge people to stay away from the scene .
other property in the area suffer damage in the blaze , include broken window .
at this stage , nobody be think to have be injure and anybody with information be ask to call police on 08451252222 08451252222 08451252222 .
police have thank resident for they patience and assistance ' during the evacuation .
waitrose in wellington catch fire .
22 jul 2013 .
a waitrose supermarket in a somerset town catch fire yesterday -lrb- july 21st -rrb- , cause substantial damage to the building '' s roof .
the fire service be call at approximately 06 : 00 bst to the store , which be on wellington '' be high street .
upon arrival they find that the roof fire be quite significant .
fire crew from devon and somerset fire and rescue attend the scene and then call a further four appliance to help , a report from itv reveal .
they contain the fire to one corner of the roof but could not be extinguish before a part of the entrance building collapse .
however , the main area of the one - storey supermarket be leave largely intact with only smoke damage .
by about 09 : 30 bst the fire be largely out , with crew check for hotspot .
the fire service '' be matt goodman explain that the fire begin on the outside of the building .
it then quickly spread to the roof so there be a significant amount of damage to the roof , but thankfully due to the early action of the wellington crew we could get a large weight of response to the scene , '' he say .
have be able to prevent it spread to other area of the building , so the main store on the inside have get a reasonably small amount of smoke damage . '' .
a spokesperson from waitrose explain that no one be hurt in the incident and be grateful to the emergency service for they quick response and effective help .
investigation into what cause the fire be ongoing .
in a bid to remove potential fire hazard , commercial building and non - domestic premise in england and wale be already force to undertake a suitable and sufficient fire risk assessment carry out under the regulatory reform -lrb- fire safety -rrb- order 2005 .
while the overwhelming majority of premise do this , if the assessment be think to have be carry out to a insufficient extent , the responsible person can face a unlimited fine or up to two year in prison .
a supermarket in surrey have be completely destroy after a fire break out on friday night .
a statement from surrey police say the blaze at the waitrose store on the high street in banstead be be treat as '' potentially suspicious '' .
officer be alert to the fire on the roof of the store at 20:49 gmt on friday .
the blaze then progress rapidly through the supermarket , leave it almost totally destroy .
police claim that local resident have be evacuate and local road closure have be put in place .
no-one be believe to have be injure in the incident , which see more than 50 firefighter tackle the blaze .
assistant chief fire officer peter guest admit it be impossible to save the building due to the extent of the damage .
'' the fire grow very rapidly and there be a large explosion and the fire then grow in intensity and scale to such a point that the building would be impossible to save , '' he say .
'' the crew have work extremely hard ... to protect the surrounding building to ensure that this fire do not spread further , but i be afraid the building here be a total loss . '' .
police be appeal for anyone with any information relate to the fire to contact they on 0845125222 0845125222 0845125222 or crimestopper on 0800555111 0800555111 .
breaking : man charge with arson after fire at waitrose in wellington .
monday , july 22 , 2013 .
a man have be charge on suspicion of arson follow a fire that devastate a somerset supermarket .
robert pitman , aged 24 and from wellington , be charge with arson follow the fire at the waitrose supermarket in the somerset town at the weekend .
he have be deny bail and will appear at taunton deane magistrate court tomorrow morning .
dozen of firefighter tackle the blaze at the supermarket after the alarm be raise at about 6am on sunday morning .
judge sentence orozco to death .
post : 05 / 02 / 07 , 9 : 00 pm pdt | .
a norwalk superior court judge on thursday uphold a jury recommendation that convict cop killer jose luis orozco die for he crime .
judge philip hickok tell a packed courtroom that he weigh all the aggravating factor and mitigating circumstance in the ambush slaying of lo angele county sheriff deputy jerry ortiz in june 2005 , and he conclude that the case absolutely warrant death instead of life without parole . '' .
orozco be convict march 20 of first - degree murder for the slaying of ortiz , a 15 - year veteran and member of the anti - gang detail at the sheriff lakewood station .
a jury recommend on april 3 that orozco be execute .
wear the orange lo angele county jail - issue jumpsuit and with he handcuffed wrist chained to he waist , orozco smile as he be lead from the courtroom for the last time and turn to make a obscene gesture at a photographer .
in deny a automatic motion by the defense to reduce the jury recommendation from death to life in prison without the possibility of parole , hickok call the slaying of the newlywed deputy and father of two a cold - blood , vicious murder . '' .
colossal factor .
hickok say the aggravating factor in the case be colossal . '' .
he note the 29 - year - old gang member not only kill the deputy while hide outside of the lawman view behind a door , orozco also allegedly try to kill another man just a few day earlier by shoot that individual in the back twice , and have brag about kill the officer .
he have also boast prior to ortiz killing that he want to kill a cop , that he want to make a name for he gang , the judge add .
the murder be commit without regard in front of two extremely impressionable and young girl , '' hickok say , refer to the star witness in the case , two sister - 8 - and 10 - year - old girl - who describe the shooting for the jury .
'' -lrb- orozco -rrb- arrange to have witness , include those two very young girl , kill so that they would not testify , '' hickok say .
dozen of deputy - many in uniform - pack the court for thursday sentencing , just as they have every day of the trial .
in the center of the gallery be the slay deputy wife , chela ortiz , who link hand with she mother - in - law , rosa ortiz , and she husband sibling .
chela speak briefly before hickok make the final ruling , address she husband killer directly as she read from a letter write by she stepson , jeremy ortiz , and then make she own statement .
why do you do it ?
why do you have to stand behind a door like a coward ? '' the young widow read from the teen letter .
chela ortiz , who marry the deputy three week before he be murder , tell orozco in a firm voice , i want you to know you do not break we family , '' as she family begin to cry .
we jerry be in heaven , we will see he again ... ... ...
he memory will live on , '' she say amid the sound of soft sob and sniffle .
and you will always be remember as a coward . '' .
the 35 - year - old deputy be kill on june 24 , while investigate a attack in which orozco shoot a man in the back while do yard work at a hawaiian garden home four day earlier .
along with murder , orozco be convict of one count of attempt murder involve the earlier shooting and two count of possession of a firearm by a felon .
juror also find true the special circumstance allegation of murder of a peace officer , murder while lie in wait and murder to avoid arrest , along with the allegation that he personally discharge a handgun and commit the crime for the benefit of a criminal street gang .
in addition to ask the judge to reduce the sentence thursday , orozco attorney make a motion for a new trial , argue that the da be wrongly allow to bring in overwhelmingly prejudicial material about orozco gang tie .
the attorney also argue that the defense be hamstring when the judge refuse to let they bring in the rev . gregory boyle to testify on he gang experience in the penalty phase of the trial .
they say the judge also refuse to let they add jury instruction about other who could be guilty of aid and abet orozco .
prosecutor point out all those argument have be make during the guilt or penalty phase of the trial , and the judge have already rule in the matter .
hickok agree and deny both motion .
tragic situation .
outside court , defense attorney stanley perlo say he client stand little chance at win a appeal in the state supreme court , which he describe as very pro death . '' .
in the ninth district court of appeal , there be a chance they will see that the defense be deny a key witness in the penalty phase of the trial , he say .
neither perlo nor he co - counsel , robin yane , ever claim they client innocence .
they client have commit the crime , both attorney say thursday .
rather , they argue that the defendant lifetime of gang membership and drug abuse be mitigating factor that could not be ignore and that should have spare he death .
they add that many of the people call to testify against they client be equally responsible for the deputy slaying and yet be not prosecute .
it a tragic situation with nothing but a sad ending .
what else could it be ? '' yane say .
ask about the pending appeal , deputy district attorney phil stirling say such case can never be predict , but add that he and lowell anger - the lead da on the case - be confident the conviction and sentence would stand .
after the sentencing , stirl call orozco a predator . '' .
he be a killer .
he murder deputy sheriff jerry ortiz , in addition to attempt to murder at least three other people that we know of , '' stirl say .
orozco death sentence will be automatically appeal to the california supreme court and he be order to be transfer within 10 day from county jail to san quentin state prison , where he will await he appeal on death row .
will probably live a much longer , healthier life on death row than he would have on the street , '' perlo say .
thursday , june 30 , 2005 .
rip la county sheriff deputy jerry ortiz .
another peace officer have be gun down in cold blood .
he name be los angele county sheriff deputy jerry ortiz .
officer ortiz be knock on door down in the city of hawaiian garden look for gang member and he be shoot point blank range in the head by gang member jose luis orozco .
they catch he a few door down from where the shooting take place .
at least he do get a chance to flee to mexico .
i guess we can be thankful for that .
this be just another example of how hard the job that police officer have .
they truely love what they do because they certainly be in it for the money .
these guy be constantly get shot at .
my hat be off to all the police officer around the country .
two possible gang member be under arrest for the assassination-style murder of a los angele county sheriff 's deputy outside he house in a gang-plagued section of the city last summer , police say saturday .
guillermo hernandez , 20 , and carlo velasquez , 24 , be arrest friday and be be hold without bail in a los angele police jail , charge with kill juan abel escalante last summer , say chief of detective charlie beck .
the suspect be member of the avenue gang , a violent group that have long claim as its turf the low-income cypress park area northeast of dodger stadium , accord to the lo angele time .
but police chief william j. bratton , eager to protect he case , would not confirm the report gang link .
escalante be shoot outside he boyhood home in the 3400 block of thorpe street in cypress park while on he way to work at the man 's central jail early aug. 2 .
bratton say escalante be load a car seat into the family 's car when he wife , celeste , hear gun shot and see she husband on the ground .
police earlier confirm that escalante be shoot in he head from behind and may never have see he murderer .
bratton ask for the public 's help in provide additional information now that the suspect ' name be make public .
the city have offer a $ 75,000 in the case , and the county board of supervisor add another $ 20,000 to that pot .
at a afternoon news conference at parker center , police offer almost no detail about the arrest and bratton specifically decline to confirm report of the suspect ' gang affiliation .
a filing with the district attorney 's office be expect on monday , and official say release detail in advance of the filing could put the case at risk .
bratton ask anyone with information to call 877-lapd-24-7 -lrb- 527-3247 -rrb- .
hawaiian garden gang member .
charge with murder sheriff '' s deputy .
july 26 , 2005 .
district attorney steve cooley announce today that capital murder charge be file against a hawaiian garden gang member accuse of gun down deputy luis gerardo -lrb- jerry -rrb- ortiz a month ago .
cooley say jose luis orozco be charge with murder the 35 - year - old deputy on june 24 outside a hawaiian garden apartment .
the complaint allege three special circumstance that would make orozco eligible for the death penalty : murder of a peace officer during performance of he duty , lie in wait and murder to avoid arrest .
'' deputy ortiz be kill while investigate a shooting in which the defendant be a suspect , '' cooley say at a news conference at the bellflower courthouse .
'' he be shoot in the head and leave die on the ground while he killer run away and try to hide .
'' law enforcement officer like deputy ortiz be the last line of defense between criminal and the law - abide citizen they protect .
when one be kill , all of we lose .
we will not let they killer go unpunished , '' the district attorney say .
orozco , 27 , be find hide in a house a few door away from the shoot some hour after deputy ortiz be slay .
he be arrest and remain in custody on a parole hold .
'' the defendant '' s custody status give sheriff '' s detective and we prosecutor in the crime against police officer section -lrb- capo -rrb- additional time to fully investigate this murder and the case on which deputy ortiz be work when he be kill , '' cooley say .
'' have time to do the fullest investigation possible result in a stronger criminal case . '' .
orozco be schedule to appear in bellflower superior court '' s division 3 at 1 : 45 p . m . today for arraignment .
the defendant , who live in hawaiian garden and also be know by the street moniker of sepe , be charge in case no . va089897 file this morning by deputy district attorney lowell anger of capo .
although file as a capital case , the district attorney '' s office will decide closer to trial whether to seek the death penalty or life in prison without the possibility of parole .
orozco be charge with one count of murder of a peace officer with the special circumstance of murder of a peace officer during performance of he duty , lie in wait and murder to avoid arrest .
it be allege the defendant personally use a handgun to commit the crime .
the complaint also allege two count of possession of a firearm by a felon for the june 24 murder of ortiz and on june 20 , when a man be shoot and wound in hawaiian garden .
it be that shooting that deputy ortiz be investigate when he be kill .
deputy ortiz be shoot to death outside a apartment in the 12000 block of east 223rd street .
the deputy be with the sheriff '' s gang enforcement unit and be investigate the june 20 shooting .
authority say he spot orozco shortly after 3 p . m . and chase he to the apartment .
the killer be hide behind the apartment '' s front door .
the defendant be arrest five building away on 223rd street shortly before midnight .
a . 38 - caliber revolver believe to be the murder weapon be recover .
orozco also be charge with one count of attempt willful , deliberate , premeditated murder in connection with the june 20 shooting .
the victim be shoot while do yard work at a home in the 22000 block of joliet avenue .
he be hit in the back , but survive .
the complaint charge that the june 20 shooting be for furtherance of a street gang .
the complaint also allege prior conviction include auto burglary , possession of a firearm by a felon and resist and executive officer .
orozco will be hold without bail .
join cooley at the news conference be assistant sheriff doyle campbell .
two possible gang member be arrest in the fatal shooting of a sheriff 's deputy who be murder as he be gettingready to go to work , official announce saturday .
hawaiian garden gangmember convict of murder lakewood stn . sheriff deputy jerry ortiz .
multiple special circumstance .
add horrific charge ; d . a . will now seek death penalty .
-lrb- march 20 , 2007 -rrb- - - .
a superior court jurty in norwalk today convict a hawaiian garden gang member of murder l . a . county sheriff deputy jerry ortiz in june , 2005 .
the district attorney office say in a release that the jury find jose luis orozco , 29 , guilty of 1st degree murder , attempt murder and posession of a firearm by a felon .
it also find true special circumstance of murder of a police officer intentionally kill while perform he duty , murder to avoid arrest , street gang murder , lie in wait ... ... ... and that orozco personally use a handgun to commit the murder and the attempt murder , the d . a . 's release say .
sheriff deputy ortiz , 35 , with lasd gang enforcement unit , be kill june 24 , 2005 outside a apartment in the 12000 block of east 223rd street in hawaiian garden while investigate a june 20 shooting in which orozco be a suspect .
the d . a . 's release say deputy ortiz spot orozco shortly after 3 p . m . the day of the shooting and chase he to the apartment .
orozco be hide behind the apartment '' s front door .
he fire at the deputy and run .
orozco be arrest five building away on 223rd street shortly before midnight .
a . 38 - caliber revolver be recover . '' .
orozco be also convict of the june 20 , 2005 attempt murder of a man shoot in the back while do yard work at a home in the 22000 block of joliet avenue in hawaiian garden , a shooting that the jury also determine to be a street crime .
next week , the same jury will begin hear evidence in the trial penalty phase in which deputy d . a . lowell anger of the crime against police officer section -lrb- capo -rrb- will seek the death penalty .
deputy ortiz be a lakewood award of valor winner in 2004 for have face down a armed carjacker who draw a gun on he and he partner , end with the death of the carjacker and the arrest of two suspect gang member .
the murder of deputy ortiz prompt a outpouring of emotion from the community , where he be respect and admire coworker and member of the community .
this be the scene outside the lakewood sheriff station 24 hour after he death .
dep . ortiz be the fifth lakewood sheriff deputy slay while on duty ... ... ... and he name be now inscribe on the memorial wall outside the lasd station on clark ave .
two male gang member whose name remain unreleased be arrest last night in the case of the murder of lo angele county sheriff 's deputy juan abel escalante which take place outside he cypress park home this august 2nd as he prepare to leave for work .
accord to the la time , '' investigator have have a difficult time determine a motive for escalante 's killing , '' however after work on the case at great length the team of detective from both the lapd 's robbery-homicide department and the la county sheriff 's homicide bureau isolate two member of the avenue gang .
it be possible that the murder take place due to the ongoing tension between the avenue and the cypress park gang , which run the area where escalante live , as oppose to escalante be a specific target due to he work at the man 's central jail .
the 27-year-old escalante '' be shoot in the back of the head and never see the assailant come . '' .
he have be a deputy for less than 3 year when he be murder .
deputy sheriff .
jerry ortiz .
lo angele county sheriff department , california .
end of watch : friday , june 24 , 2005 .
deputy jerry ortiz be shoot and kill after knock on a door during a investigation .
deputy ortiz have go to a apartment complex in the city of hawaiian garden to question a woman about a shooting that have take place the previous day .
as he speak to the woman at the door of the apartment , the suspect in the previous day shooting appear and shoot he in the head .
the man then flee into a apartment three door away .
deputy find he hide in a bathtub three hour later .
the suspect , who be on parole and have prior arrest for conviction for assault with a deadly weapon , resist arrest , burglary , as well as for gun and drug crime , be charge with first degree murder and face the death penalty .
in april 2007 the suspect be find guilty of capital murder and sentence to death .
six month prior to this incident , deputy ortiz brother - in - law , correction officer manuel a . gonzalez , of the california department of correction , be stab to death by a gang member inmate at california institution for man in chino .
deputy ortiz have serve with the lo angele county sheriff department for 15 year and be assign to the anti - gang unit .
he be survive by he wife , two son , and mother .
he be bury in calvary cemetery , lo angele , california .
a los angele county sheriff department deputy -- a recently marry father of two son -- die after a shooting friday afternoon in hawaiian garden , accord to the sheriff department .
gunfire be report at about 3 p . m . in the hawaiian garden area during a operation involve a uniformed gang enforcement deputy identify as lo angele county sheriff deputy jerry ortiz , accord to sheriff official .
the location be about 10 block east of the 605 freeway .
authority say a witness call 911 to report the shooting , which occur after ortiz knock on the residence door , accord to the sheriff department .
ortiz be shoot in the head , say larry waldie of the sheriff department .
he be transport in a helicopter to ucla - medical center .
as of 11 p . m . authority be still search for jose luis orozco , 27 , who be consider armed and dangerous .
he be 5 - foot - 8 inch tall , weigh 130 pound , have a shave head and be heavily tattoo .
he be wear knee - length shorts with white tennis shoe , accord to the sheriff department .
ortiz , 35 , be a 15 - year member of the sheriff department .
he have be work with the gang enforcement team for the last five year .
sheriff department official initially report that a second deputy be shoot , but authority later say the respond deputy injury be not cause by gunfire .
sheriff official say the second deputy be injure when he fall .
that deputy be hospitalize at tri - city hospital .
a swat unit be dispatch to the area near carson street and norwalk boulevard .
deputy and at least one canine unit also be at the scene .
authority say they believe they know the identity of the shooter but no suspect have be take into custody .
update .
a suspect have be arrest in connection with the killing of a los angele county sheriff deputy conduct a follow - up investigation in a gang case , authority say today .
jose luis orozco be arrest just before midnight yesterday , near where the shooting ocur in hawaiian garden , lo angele county sheriff sgt . don manumaleuna say .
no shot be fire when orozco be take into custody , he add .
gunman kill l . a . deputy on gang duty .
june 25 , 2005 .
a los angele county sheriff deputy interview a woman and a man outside a hawaiian garden apartment be fatally shoot friday when a gunman burst out of the residence , put a handgun to the officer face and fire , authority say .
sheriff deputy fan out across hawaiian garden late friday in search of the gunman , who apparently surprise deputy jerry ortiz , 35 , as he speak to the woman in the doorway of she apartment .
authority say ortiz probably die instantly .
this be a assassination of a deputy , '' sheriff lee baca say .
it be a sudden attack that give the deputy no chance . '' .
deputy identify the suspect as jose luis orozco , 27 , a parolee want on suspicion of attempt murder in another case .
he should be consider armed and very dangerous , '' say sheriff spokesman steve whitmore .
deputy say that orozco be 5 - foot - 8 , 135 pound , with tattoo of devil horn on he forehead and other tattoo over he upper body .
they say he be a gang member know by the nickname sepy . '' .
ortiz , who have hope to become a detective soon , have work for the sheriff department for 15 year and be know as a extremely hard worker whose job be to penetrate the inner workings of local gang .
the diamond bar resident be marry two week ago to he second wife , chela .
he be also survive by two son , age 6 and 16 .
last year , ortiz win the department medal of honor after he fatally shoot a carjacker who draw a gun on he and he partner , det . colin orpe .
he be a outstanding person , who would go out of he way to help people , '' say orpe , a longtime friend .
be all mourning , '' he say , choke back tear .
the shooting occur about 3 : 10 p . m . in the 12200 block of 223rd street in hawaiian garden , a working - class city at the northeastern border of long beach that have long be plague by gang violence .
the town of 14 , 000 have struggle economically in recent year , lure a casino to help balance its shaky finances .
ortiz body be discover by resident who hear the gunfire .
they try to aid the deputy and dial 911 , authority say .
ortiz be work without he longtime partner at the time of the attack .
undersheriff larry waldie say ortiz have arrive for work early , as he often do , and be so eager to begin he day that he strike out on he own .
he do want to wait , '' waldie say .
ask if ortiz might have live have he partner be with he , waldie say there be no way to know .
there might have be two people kill , '' he say .
the shooting be follow by confusion as score of deputy descend on the area with dog and rifle but little knowledge of what have occur .
a sheriff swat team encircle the apartment complex where it be believe that the gunman could be hide .
patrol deputy detain as many as nine potential witness and other in a effort to learn detail of the shooting .
nearly all of they be round up in a liquor store next to the apartment complex .
television news footage show the man and woman sit on the curb in handcuffs as deputy interview they and swab they hand for possible gunshot residue .
deputy killer get death sentence .
the gang member shot jerry ortiz outside a hawaiian garden build in 2005 .
april 04 , 2007 .
a norwalk jury on tuesday order execution for a gang member convict of murder a los angele county sheriff deputy in june 2005 .
deputy luis gerardo jerry ortiz , 35 , be shoot outside a hawaiian garden apartment building while investigate jose luis orozco in connection with another shooting .
orozco , 29 , be find guilty by the same jury last month of first - degree murder with the special circumstance of murder of a police officer and possession of a firearm by a felon .
this be the kind of person and the kind of crime that the death penalty be make for , '' say dist . atty . steve cooley .
sheriff deputy timothy brennan , who have be ortiz partner for a year , call the verdict bittersweet .
he explain , you feel good , but it never go to bring jerry back to he family and friend . '' .
orozco be to be formally sentence may 3 by judge philip h . hickock .
stanley perlo , one of orozco lawyer , say he client grow up in a gang - infested area .
for all intent and purpose , the gang become he family . '' .
perlo say orozco be consume by gang life in much the same way one be addict to drug , affect he judgment .
a 15 - year department veteran , ortiz have hope to become a detective .
he have marry two week before the shooting , and have win a department medal of honor for fatally shoot a suspect carjacker who have pull a gun on he and he partner .
the jury reach its verdict in less than a day .
juror on monday ask to review a video recording of orozco boast about the shooting to other jail inmate two week after ortiz death .
the recording , which be present during the trial , show orozco talk about he appearance on the america most want television show .
deputy alleged killer hold .
a 27 - year - old parolee be find cower in a bathtub near the house where jerry ortiz have be shoot in the head a few hour earlier .
june 26 , 2005 .
before he be fatally shoot , lo angele county sheriff deputy jerry ortiz be look for a man consider to be a career criminal and be hope to arrest he on suspicion of attempt murder , official say saturday .
that man , jose luis orozco , be now the main suspect in the friday afternoon slaying of ortiz in hawaiian garden .
orozco be arrest around midnight friday by a sheriff swat team , three house from the scene of the fatal shooting .
he be find cower in a bathtub , '' sheriff lee baca say .
ortiz , a gang enforcement officer , be search for orozco because he be a suspect in a shooting that occur in the neighborhood monday , say sheriff capt . ray peavy , a homicide investigator .
orozco , 27 , a known gang member , be also suspect of violate parole after serve time for a weapon violation , peavy say .
ortiz , 35 , be on he own about 3 p . m . friday when he go to a house in hawaiian garden , a working - class city at the northeast border of long beach with long - stand gang problem .
peavy say the specific reason for ortiz visit be unknown but he provide a few detail about the encounter : a woman answer the door and a man walk up behind she .
ortiz ask the man for some identification and be check it when orozco appear from inside the house .
he shoot ortiz once in the head and flee , peavy say .
dozen of law enforcement officer work the case through the afternoon and into the night , fan out around the 12200 block of 223rd street and question resident .
deputy believe they know where orozco be hide and obtain a search warrant .
a handgun be recover during the arrest , peavy say .
orozco , who be book on suspicion of violate he parole , be be hold without bail .
lo angele county dist . atty . steve cooley say he expect orozco to be charge with first - degree murder of a peace officer , which mean he could receive the death penalty if he be convict .
peavy could not say what orozco be do in the house , but say he have be live on the street and sleep in different place .
baca , who have be in kentucky for a meeting of the national sheriff assn . , return to lo angele for a news conference hold saturday with cooley and lo angele mayor - elect antonio villaraigosa .
baca praise the work of he investigator , but the arrest seem to do little to quell he anger .
he call orozco the scum of the earth and a idiot , '' point to a photo of the suspect and the devil horn tattoo on he bald head .
cooley unfurl a long trail of printer paper that baca say contain orozco criminal record , include drug and weapon violation , resist arrest , burglary and assault with a deadly weapon .
the sheriff contrast the suspect life with that of ortiz , a 15 - year department veteran .
ortiz not only exemplify the best of what we have , but take it upon himself to work in the toughest job that we also have - - and that be try to do something about this out - of - control gang problem in lo angele county , '' baca say .
baca urge everyone in southern california to pay more attention to the gang problem .
he call for broader prevention initiative , lament the lack of resource in he department and urge parent to get involve in the life of they child .
cooley say the fact that orozco have be in contact with he parole officer since january be a failure of the system , but he do not elaborate .
undersheriff larry waldie say that ortiz set out without a partner friday because he have arrive early and be eager to get to work .
peavy say ortiz usually partner with one of two deputy , but both have the day off .
instead , ortiz have plan to partner with he sergeant .
but he apparently decide to visit the house first .
peavy note that such solo work be not a violation of department policy .
ortiz , of diamond bar , be a army veteran and the father of two boy , age 6 and 16 .
he be marry for the second time about two week ago .
he family decline a request for a interview saturday through a sheriff spokesman .
but colleague describe he as someone who live for police work and be a fanatic about boxing .
he fight on the sheriff boxing team and trained recruit and deputy in hand - to - hand combat .
lt . bob rifkin of operation safe street , the department gang unit , say ortiz become interested in the gang problem while work as a patrol officer from 1996 to 2000 .
he join the gang unit in 2001 after pass a background check and write exam that test he knowledge of gang culture .
ortiz win numerous commendation for he work .
last year , he be award the city of lakewood medal of valor after he fatally shoot a carjacker who draw a gun on he and he partner .
jerry be 35 year old and have more motivation than a 21 - year - old just get on the department , '' rifkin say .
he always want to go toward the action and that what jerry be respect for . '' .
baca note that ortiz family have have tremendous tragedy when it come to those member who be in law enforcement . '' .
in january , ortiz brother - in - law , manuel a . gonzalez , be stab to death while work as a correction officer at a state prison in chino .
the alleged killer , jon christopher blaylock , be serve a life sentence for the attempt murder of a police officer .
sheriff '' s deputy shot and kill .
june 24 , 2005 .
a 35 - year - old sheriff '' s deputy work with a anti - gang unit be kill friday when he knock on the door of a home and someone shoot he in the head , authority say .
deputy jerry ortiz have go to the home to speak to a woman there as part of a gang investigation when he be attack , undersheriff larry waldie tell reporter friday night .
ortiz probably die instantly , waldie say .
'' someone come out either nearby or from the residence and put a bullet through he head , '' waldie say .
lo angele county sheriff lee baca , who be out of state attend a convention , make plan to return to southern california immediately .
the deputy , who be wed about three week ago , be survive by he wife and two son , age 16 and 6 , waldie say .
he be a 15 - year veteran of the department and have be a member of its anti - gang unit for the past five year .
authority say they believe they know the identity of the shooter , although the person be not immediately take into custody .
deputy cordon off street in the neighborhood and be search for the suspect friday night .
a passer - by who find the wound deputy shortly after 3 p . m . call the lakewood sheriff '' s station to report the shooting , say sheriff '' s sgt . vanette christiansen .
'' we lakewood unit respond out and in fact we find a deputy who work we gang enforcement team who have gunshot wound , '' she say .
another deputy fall and suffer a minor injury respond to the crime scene .
death for orozco .
post : 04 / 02 / 07 , 9 : 00 pm pdt | .
a convict cop killer laugh tuesday after hear a jury ruling that he be put to death .
jose luis orozco show almost no emotion throughout the three - week trial in which he be convict of the 2005 murder of lo angele county sheriff deputy jerry ortiz .
a rare exception for the 29 - year - old hawaiian garden gang member be a occasional smile for he mother when he turn in he chair to glance back at she from time to time .
he will be sentence may 3 .
when the jury convict he last month of the deputy slaying , as well as the attempt murder of another man just a few day prior to the ambush killing of ortiz , orozco sit stare straight ahead , unflinching .
as court clerk dan fallon read the jury sentence shortly before noon tuesday , several member of the slay lawman family gasp , clutch one another hand .
at the same time , a small smile spread across orozco face and he chuckle .
we understand and we appreciate the gravity of the decision that the jury have to make ... ... ... , and that it take a lot for they to -lrb- come to that decision -rrb- , '' chela ortiz , the deputy wife , say afterward .
we appreciate everything they do , we know they be very careful ... ... ... and give this a lot of they attention . '' .
chela ortiz - who be marry three week before she husband be murder - sit with she mother in - law , rosa ortiz , and the rest of the family every day of the trial .
they be accompany by dozen of sheriff deputy and other family friend , include the family priest .
most day be difficult and fill with tear as they listen to chill testimony recount the last few minute of ortiz life and saw , for the first time , the crime scene and autopsy photo .
i think , for all of we , it be kind of relive the nightmare all over , '' chela ortiz say .
family member listen to testimony that include the defendant violent past and the many time he escape prosecution by use he gang influence and power to intimidate victim - include two nearly kill when they be shoot and stab in the back by orozco , accord to prosecutor .
orozco friend and fellow gang member also recall he boast about kill a cop one day .
i just say thank god it be over , '' the deputy mother , rosa ortiz , say .
it be too much some day ... ... ...
to I it be too hard . '' .
it take the jury of six man and six woman a little more than four hour , spread over two day , to choose death over life in prison without the possibility of parole .
it be almost the same amount of time use to come to the guilty verdict on march 20 .
accord to three juror who speak briefly outside the courtroom , the decision be a difficult one make slightly easier by the thorough job of the prosecutor and investigator .
none of they want to be identify because of the gang tie to the case .
the physical evidence , which include orozco dna and fingerprint find on the murder weapon , be overwhelming , they say .
there be also a number of eye witness include two girl who describe for the jury how orozco hide behind they front door and shoot the deputy as ortiz speak with they mother .
equally as damning , juror say , be the complete lack of remorse show by the defendant .
he squander two opportunity to turn he life around , include chance to relocate out of state and away from the gang with he family in las vegas and again with a friend and former gang member in florida , they say .
it look to they as though he prefer the life of a criminal and revel in the notoriety he earn in the deputy death .
a tape conversation between orozco and two friend - one a fellow gang member and the other a associate - in a holding cell at the bellflower courthouse make it clear to the jury that a life in prison would not diminish he threat to society , they say .
in that tape , orozco be hear talk about destroy evidence and order a hit on the two little girl and they mother - the star witness in the case .
i have to hear that tape again , '' one juror say .
because if we be go to send he to jail for life , he could run the same business from behind bar , '' a second juror add .
this way he not harm anyone anymore . '' .
apartment murder .
ortiz be assign to track orozco down the day before he june 24 , 2005 murder .
that task stem from the june 20 , 2005 shooting of a black man who - accord to prosecutor - orozco try to kill simply because of he race .
the 15 - year veteran , who learn the day before that he have make the rank of detective , be patrolling in hawaiian garden near 223rd street when he spot orozco and try to stop he .
the gang member take off run with ortiz behind he , accord to court testimony .
ortiz follow orozco to a apartment complex in the 12500 block of east 223rd street , to the home of one of orozco friend whom the deputy know from previous altercation , at about 3 : 30 p . m .
what ortiz do know be that orozco be lurk behind the woman front door .
as ortiz speak to she and reholster he weapon , orozco steady he hand while two of the woman child - girl age 6 and 8 - and several of she friend look on .
he fire just one shot from he . 38 - caliber revolver , with the slug pass through a crack in the door and hit the deputy in the side of the head .
the 35 - year - old newlywed and father to two boy die almost immediately .
tactical decision .
stan perlo , one of two court - appoint defense attorney assign to orozco , say the defendant lack of support from he family deal a massive blow to they case .
originally , orozco mother be to take the stand to tell she son story and talk about the many problem he face grow up , perlo say .
but she become nervous , tell she son the night before she be to testify that she do not want to go through with it , perlo explain .
orozco agree not to force he mother to have to take the witness stand , a decision that likely destroy he chance at any mercy on the part of the jury , he say .
we problem be we have no one to tell he story , '' perlo say .
we be count on he mom and ... ... ... she be too nervous to testify . '' .
perlo and co - counsel robin yane approach orozco case from a somewhat unorthodox position .
rather than argue they client innocence , they repeatedly refer to they client as the gunman in the presence of the jury and focus on a number of other people they claim be equally responsible in the crime .
it be a tactical decision reach by the two veteran attorney , both with extensive experience with death penalty case , and after consultation with they peer , perlo explain .
we make a lot of decision that some lawyer would disagree with , '' he say .
i would add , personally , a lot of lawyer with a lot less experience . '' .
long process .
when orozco return to court on may 3 , perlo and yane will argue for a mistrial and , if that be reject , will ask judge philip hickok to modify the jury verdict and consider life without parole .
the chance either argument will be successful be slight , perlo say .
but that then set into motion the automatic appeal process , something that will be handle by a different set of attorney .
during that time , orozco will not be house with the general population , he will have a cell all he own give he isolation from much of the gang violence in the state prison .
at the very least , perlo estimate the appeal process will last five year .
it could run into 20 year because there be both state and federal requirement that must be meet , he add .
a large part of the problem stem from find lawyer who be available for such a lengthy commitment of time , who be willing to take on a stressful job and who be qualify , perlo say .
the decision today make the family happy , but unfortunately it a false happiness , '' perlo say after court tuesday .
have deal with issue of death for many year ... ... ...
the death penalty rarely offer ... ... ... closure . '' .
the ortiz family , however , disagree .
be kind of relieved that it over , '' say 17 - year - old jeremy ortiz , one of the deputy son from a previous marriage .
be happy with the verdict , we just have to wait it out now . '' .
prior to the reading of the verdict , the deputy family and friend wait in a courtroom fill to capacity but so quiet one could could hear the slight squeak of the attorney leather chair .
some bow they head and rub they face , while other clasp they hand as though in prayer .
when the sentence be finally announce a collective gasp for air be follow by cry and sob as relative sit behind the family lean forward to rub they shoulder and give a comforting squeeze .
outside the courtroom , rosa ortiz take out a button with a laminated picture of she slay son in uniform and hand it to the eldest of she five child , art ortiz , so that he could pin it on she blouse .
once it be secure she kiss it tenderly .
for many minute afterward , relative and friend stand outside the courtroom hugging and cry .
detective dawn retzlaff , one of the two lead homicide detective on the case , say authority be grateful for the jury thorough and careful review of the fact and investigator be happy with the verdict , call it just .
speak on behalf of the sheriff department , retzlaff add that they want to express they condolence to ortiz family in what be a devastating time .
it not a happy day for anybody , '' say deputy district attorney lowell anger , who prosecute the case along with fellow da phillip stirling .
anger say that the message send by the jury sentence - that kill a police officer and flaunt all respect for authority and for life will not be tolerate - be clear .
it be the constant support from anger , stirl and the district attorney office , from the sheriff department and other law enforcement agency , and from the family large circle of friend that make the tumultuous trial more bearable , chela and she in - law insist .
we could never repay they for all the support and love they have for this family , and that they have for jerry , '' chela say .
a vancouver man have be charge with first-degree murder after a killing at a office party .
police allege eric allen kirkpatrick , 61 , open fire at a vancouver office christmas party friday , kill one man .
const tim fanning tell a news conference today a man walk into the party with a firearm and shoot one person dead immediately .
police have identify the victim as benjamin david banky , 40 , of vancouver .
twelve other people manage to leave the office while police begin two hour of negotiation with a suspect .
fanning say the incident be extremely traumatic for witness .
detroit office shooter charge with murder , attempt murder .
publish april 11 , 2007 .
a man fire four day earlier from he job as a accountant walk into he old office , pass by the receptionist and make he way to a manager office with the purpose of kill he with a shotgun , a police sergeant say wednesday during the man arraignment .
when monday violence have conclude , the receptionist - - madeline kafoury - - be shoot dead and two manager , paul riva and alan steinberg , be wound .
steinberg be shoot in the hip and have speak to police about the attack , while riva have not yet regain consciousness and be on a ventilator .
the man accuse of shoot he three former co - worker be anthony lacalamita iii , a 38 - year - old troy resident who be fire from gordon advisor on thursday .
a not guilty plea be enter on lacalamita behalf during wednesday hearing .
lacalamita be charge with first - degree murder in the death of kafoury , 63 , of warren .
he also be charge with two count of intent to murder in the shooting of riva , 47 , of sterling height , and steinberg , 48 , of macomb county bruce township - - as well as three count of possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony and one count of flee and elude police .
lacalamita be ask by judge michael a . martone if he understand the charge against he and if he be aware that he could be sentence to life in prison without the possibility of parole if convict of first - degree murder .
he respond , yes , '' to the series of question pose by martone .
the judge order he hold without bond pend he next court hearing april 19 .
kafoury love one attend wednesday arraignment , and she daughter , charlene - - hold a picture of kafoury - - sob loudly during the proceedings .
she do do it .
she do fire he , '' charlene kafoury say .
lacalamita sit nearby and do not react to the comment from the victim daughter .
after the hearing , charlene kafoury and other love one gather for a news conference .
she be just a receptionist ... ... ... .
she be we mom and the grandmother of we child , '' say charlie kafoury , charlene brother .
she be a essential point of we life , '' say a tearful charlie kafoury , who have difficulty get out he word .
a number of love one stand behind he and cry audibly .
they engage in a group hug after the news conference .
troy police sgt . barry whiteside say lacalamita first stop at the reception area after 10 a . m . on monday and talk to kafoury , then enter steinberg office and ask he twice if he want to be shoot .
steinberg tell police he think lacalamita be hold a toy gun .
he do think it be real until he see the shotgun be be rack , '' whiteside say .
after shoot steinberg , whiteside say lacalamita walk down the hall and into riva office .
kafoury , who be stand in the doorway of riva office , be strike in she midsection , whiteside say .
she fall to the floor and die from she wound , he say .
lacalamita then fire one round at riva , who be strike in the upper chest area .
riva try to step over kafoury and collapse in the hall , whiteside say .
police say lacalamita target the two manager and also may have intend to shoot another one .
there be a suspicion that there might have be a third upper management official he be seek , '' say troy police lt . gerry scherlinck .
the man , whom police do not identify , be not in the office suite at the time of the attack .
police say the shotgun be arm with buckshot that contain nine pellet in each shot .
some of the pellet hit the victim and some do not , police say .
lacalamita be fire from he position as a general accountant last thursday because of poor performance , police say .
accord to receipt police recover from he apartment , lacalamita purchase the shotgun around 3 : 45 p . m . on friday .
lacalamita be deny a handgun permit in march , say scherlinck , who would not say why the permit be deny .
lacalamita be arrest monday afternoon after lead police on a chase north along interstate 75 in genesee county in which speed reach 120 mph .
a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three live shell be find in the silver ford fusion lacalamita be drive .
police say they find a long , cardboard box consistent to one that would hold a shotgun , as well as empty shell box , in a dumpster outside lacalamita apartment during a search monday evening .
a former employee recently let go from he job open fire at a office christmas party yesterday , kill one person .
vancouver police say the disgruntled man burst into the workplace during the party and open fire .
'' the suspect , a 61-year-old man , enter the business , which have at least a dozen people inside enjoy a christmas party , '' police say in a statement .
police const tim fanning say the gunman come in around 4 p.m. local time .
one man be shoot and kill but the other partygoer manage to escape and no one else be injure .
'' police lock down the neighbourhood and negotiate with the suspect , who give himself up to police just after 6 p.m. , '' fan say in the statement .
the business at the location of the shooting be list at tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
state police say a bomb explode at a oregon bank after it be evacuate and at least one bomb technician be injure .
theoregonian newspaper quote a federal spokesman confirm that a bomb detonate at west coast bank in woodburn .
the spokesman for the bureau of alcohol , tobacco , firearm and explosive also say at least one bomb technician have be injure .
theoregonianreport the bank have be evacuate before the bomb detonate .
sack worker shoot ex - colleague .
april 10 , 2007 - 7 : 07am .
a man suspect of shooting three people , kill one , at a suburban detroit accounting firm from which he be fire last week be arrest after a high - speed chase a few hour after the attack this morning , authority say .
police say they have located anthony lacalamita , 38 , on the interstate 75 highway , north of the office building where the shooting take place .
sheriff deputy and state police chase he for 48km , include through a construction zone , at speed up to 193km / h before he finally pull over after about 15 minute , genesee county sheriff robert j pickell say .
he probably realise if he do , he be go to be shoot , '' undersheriff jame gage say .
lacalamita say nothing after officer surround he , pickell say , describe the suspect as subdue .
very , very , very subdue .
officer find a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three live shell in the vehicle , pickell say .
witness say the shooter use a shotgun or a rifle , troy police lieutenant gerry scherlinck say .
some witness tell police that when the shooter walk into the office on the building second floor at about 10am today , he look as if he be try to hide something , troy police chief charle craft say .
police could not say how many shot be fire .
be not positive all three of the people be target , but there appear to be some purpose , '' craft say .
the family of the two wound man request total privacy , and the hospital would not release any detail about they condition , beaumont hospital spokeswoman ilene wolfe say .
she say the third victim die on the way to the hospital .
lacalamita be list among the professional staff on the website of gordon adviser , a public accounting and business consulting firm in the building .
call to gordon adviser be not answer this afternoon , and a recording say the office be close .
the 15 , 800 - square - metre building house a number of business , include law office and the accounting firm .
police at first tell worker to stay in they office but a short time later evacuate the building , about 24km north of detroit .
bill adgate , who work at lpl financial inside the building , say he have hunker down inside the office for a couple of hour with furniture push up against the door .
he say police tell the group to stay put until officer allow they to leave .
it tough .
i want to get out , '' adgate say by telephone .
employee at a vancouver wholesaler be cope saturday with the death of they boss , who be gun down at they office christmas party .
a man face murder charge in a christmas party shooting be on suicide watch monday as friend and family of pay glowing tribute to he alleged victim .
those who know benjamin david banky , 40 , be still in shock three day after he be gun down during what be suppose to be a christmas celebration at he office .
he accuse killer , eric kirkpatrick , make a brief appearance in vancouver provincial court monday on a charge of first-degree murder .
banky be ceo of tallgrass distribution ltd. , a wholesaler of natural health product , which remain closed monday .
'' he be incredibly bright , a very care person and incredibly family-oriented , '' say nancy o'higgins , a longtime family friend .
o'higgin and she husband eric , both retire journalist , know ben as a baby because they work in the media in ontario with ben 's father jake before both family move west , six month apart .
the o'higgin ' attend ben 's wedding a couple of year ago on hornby island , one of the gulf island where he parent now live .
'' they be not marry very long , just a couple of year . '' .
she say ben and he wife grow up as neighbour on hornby island .
'' that be how ben and linda know each other . '' .
ben attend school in he early year in white rock but get most of he education in victoria where he father work for broadcast news , which be now the canadian press .
she say he travel to china for awhile , where he study mandarin and be quite fluent .
'' i be so incredibly impressed that he speak mandarin that that really stick in my head , '' say o'higgin .
john banky , ben 's older brother , speak briefly from the parent ' home monday , allude to he brother 's musical ability .
'' he speak a few language and could play any instrument make by man , '' say he brother .
while the family try to deal with the loss , kirkpatrick make a brief appearance in court .
he lawyer , richard fowler , tell the court he client be on suicide watch at the north fraser pretrial centre in port coquitlam .
fowler describe condition at the centre as unacceptable , say he client be double-bunked with a man who be withdraw from a drug addiction and the cell be cold .
much of b.c. be in the grip of a cold spell , with unusually cold temperature in the vancouver area that be well below freezing .
kirkpatrick , who have long grey hair flow down to he shoulder and a long grey beard , be dress in red , prison-issue coverall .
he stand quietly in the prisoner 's box listen to the proceedings .
the sixty-one-year-old be arrest friday , not long after banky be shoot to death .
outside court , fowler say kirkpatrick be '' not do very well . '' .
'' he be place in a double bunk with somebody who be withdraw from drug .
he can not sleep .
it be freezing cold .
the problem be that these institution be too full . '' .
'' he be presume innocent and he should be treat better . '' .
lon wood , another retire victoria journalist who know ben 's father from they day work in victoria , say he meet ben and the other child through they parent .
'' they be a very close family . '' .
john paul fraser of national public relation , which be work for tallgrass , say the family be not speak publicly yet .
at a weekend news conference , city police spokesman const .
tim fanning say kirkpatrick have be let go from tallgrass on thursday .
fanning do not know how long the suspect have work at the business .
the other people at the office party be able to escape without injury , fanning say .
'' the shock be tremendous but all the other people in the business - and a dozen other people who be there for a christmas party - manage to get out safely , '' fan say .
the shocked party-goer be put on bus and take to police headquarters where witness statement be take , he say .
he say counsellor have be make available to they .
a former employee who open fire at a office christmas party and kill one man have be charge with first-degree murder , police say saturday .
constable tim fan allege the recently fire man , eric allen kirkpatrick , 61 , open fire at a vancouver office friday , kill benjamin david banky , 40 .
fanning say the gunman enter the party of at least a dozen people around 4 p.m .
one man be shoot and kill but the other partygoer manage to escape and no one else be injure .
'' police lock down ' the neighborhood and negotiate with the suspect , who give himself up to police just after 6 p.m. , '' fan say in a statement .
the business at the location of the shooting be list as tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
luke pigeon , who live in a apartment building next door , say he do not hear a gunshot but hear noise outside he window .
'' it be not typical , crazy noise that sometimes happen .
you get the feeling there be something definitely , definitely wrong , '' pigeon tell the canadian press .
he look out he window and see someone flee the building next door .
'' all of a sudden in my front yard there be five totally deck out , gear up riot squad officer with gun out of the holster , aim at the second floor of the building right beside we , '' pigeon say .
after two hour , he say , the gunman give himself up and police cuff he .
one man be dead after be shoot by a gunman who march into a company christmas party friday night .
vancouver police have arrest a 61-year-old former employee after the shooting at tallgrass distributor ltd. , a organic supplement and health product store in the mount pleasant neighbourhood near downtown vancouver .
'' a man who apparently have just be let go from he job there come in , shot and kill another man , '' vancouver police const .
tim fanning tell a news conference .
'' there be at least a dozen other people on the scene .
they manage to get out .
'' we negotiator get on the phone with he right away , and fortunately be able to talk he down from he very , very excited and upset state . '' .
fanning say no one else be injure .
office around the neighbourhood be shut down during the police standoff that last two hour before the gunman give himself up .
staff at fiji island auto , across the street from the building where the shooting take place , be tell at 5 : 30 p.m. local time to leave the premise .
john christie , head of house production for paperny film , locate down the street , say they be plan to hold a office party upstairs when someone hear shot fire .
'' we have be ask by the police to stay away from the window and we have be force to go downstairs , '' christie say .
a former employee walk into a staff christmas party at a east vancouver health product business friday and shot and kill a man , accord to police .
police say they be call to tallgrass distributor ltd. , in the central mount pleasant neighbourhood , where a man carry a firearm have confront the crowd .
'' a man who apparently have just be let go from he job there come in , shot and kill another man , '' vancouver police const tim fanning tell a news conference .
'' there be at least a dozen other people on the scene .
they manage to get out .
'' we negotiator get on the phone with he right away , and fortunately be able to talk he down from he very , very excited and upset state . '' .
after two hour a 61-year-old man surrender and be arrest .
fan could not say if anyone else be in the building at the time , but say no one else be injure .
nigel hacker say he look outside he nearby office at about 4:20 p.m. to see the street cordon off .
'' there be someone in the building and they be try to get he out , '' hacker say .
'' i try not to listen . '' .
but he catch the tone of the conversation .
'' it be not emotional from this end , '' he say .
'' everything seem under control .
they do a great job . '' .
down the street at paperny film , john christie say employee be plan to hold a office party upstairs when someone hear shot fire and the police come knock at they door .
'' we have be ask by the police to stay away from the window and we have be force to go downstairs , '' christie say .
'' we be have a office party anyway so we be just stay out of the way , undercover .
if we be in a lockdown , at least we have beer and pizza . '' .
christie say the police , who place a undercover officer at paperny 's front door , be not please when some office worker flee through the back alley to get home .
tallgrass claim it be the fastest-growing natural-health-product supplier to the natural health industry in canada .
it be originally call tallgrass hemp company , and supply a variety of product base on the hemp plant , include body dope , a line of hair and skin-care product make with hemp and other botanical .
a 61-year-old man in canada be charge with first-degree murder in a deadly office christmas party shooting .
constable tim fanning say eric allen kirkpatrick , who have recently be fire from he job in vancouver , be accuse of fatally shooting benjamin david banky .
fanning say at least a dozen people be at the party when the gunman enter about 4 p.m .
police lock down the neighborhood and kirkpatrick give up about two hour later .
the business at the location of the shooting be list as tallgrass distribution , a natural health product supplier .
a 61-year-old man be charge with first-degree murder saturday after allegedly open fire at he former employer ' office christmas party in vancouver , kill one man , police say .
constable tim fanning say eric allen kirkpatrick , who have recently be fire from he job , be accuse of fatally shooting benjamin david banky , 40 .
fanning say at least a dozen people be at the party when the gunman enter about 4 p.m .
all but kirkpatrick escape without injury .
'' police lock down the neighborhood and negotiate with the suspect , who give himself up to police just after 6 : 00 p.m. , '' fan say in a statement .
the business at the location of the shooting be list as tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
sheriff : michigan office shooting kill 1 , injure 2 .
post : 1052 gmt -lrb- 1852 hkt -rrb- , april 10 , 2007 .
a michigan man shoot to death one person and injured two other monday at the suburban detroit accounting firm from which he be fire last week , police say .
the suspect , 38 - year - old anthony lacalamita , be deliberately seek out these individual , '' accord to troy police lt . gerry scherlinck .
a female receptionist die and two man , believe to be management level employee , '' undergo surgery for gunshot wound at royal oak beaumont hospital , scherlinck say .
a 50 - year - old man from dexter , michigan , tip off authority to lacalamita location after hear a description of the suspect vehicle - - a 2007 silver ford fusion - - on the radio .
the man , who do not want to be identify , call 911 when he realize the vehicle directly next to he match the description on the radio , accord to genesee county sheriff robert pickell .
police attempt to stop the vehicle as it enter vienna township , but lacalamita would not pull over , pickell say .
lacalamita drive across several county , at speed up to 120 mile per hour , surrender only after authority box in he car on interstate 75 in saginaw , michigan .
he surrender peacefully and without incident , '' pickell say .
upon arrest , police seize a shotgun and several shell , he say .
lacalamita be be hold in the genesee county jail and be expect to be hand over to the detroit police .
a web site for the public accounting firm gordon advisor in the building list lacalamita as a employee .
we hear gunshot ... ... ... .
be on the third floor , barricade in , '' bill adgate , who work for lpl financial in the office building , tell cnn affiliate wdiv - tv as the search go on for the gunman .
we put a conference table in front of the front door with a bunch of chair , '' adgate tell wdiv , a detroit station .
we have four entrance - - three entrance to we office .
we put file cabinet and thing of that nature in front of it . '' .
monday shooting follow two last week in public place in atlanta , georgia , and seattle , washington .
in atlanta cnn center on tuesday , police say a man shoot to death he former girlfriend just downstairs from the center omnus hotel and outside the cnn . com newsroom .
on monday on the seattle campus of the university of washington , a gunman kill he former girlfriend and then himself .
in early march , a gunman shot and wound three people at a printing facility near lo angele , california , before kill himself .
police say he be a disgruntled employee of the facility in signal hill , california .
in february , a gunman kill five people and injured several other at a shopping mall in salt lake city , utah , before a off - duty policeman kill the shooter .
a 61-year-old vancouver man be charge yesterday in connection with the fatal shooting of he former boss at a office christmas party .
eric allen kirkpatrick face one count of first-degree murder , vancouver police say .
it be unclear when he would appear in court to answer to the charge .
the victim , benjamin david banky , 40 , of vancouver be gun down friday when a man show up at the christmas party with a gun .
the man '' have a firearm with he .
he shoot one man fatally right away , '' say vancouver police spokesperson tim fanning .
the business where the shooting occur be list as tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
kirkpatrick be let go by he employer last thursday , fanning say , but he do not know how long the suspect have work at the business .
the other people at the office party be able to escape without injury , fanning say .
'' the shock be tremendous , but all the other people in the business - and there be another dozen other people who be there for a christmas party - manage to get out safely , '' fan say .
police be call immediately , and surround the building , fanning say .
what follow be a tense two hour while police negotiate the suspect 's exit from the building .
it be not know what kind of firearm be involve .
luke pigeon , who live in a apartment next door , say he do not hear a gunshot but see a woman flee the building next door .
'' all i saw be a ... lady run down the block scream , '' pigeon say .
he say she run into a nearby auto repair shop where she apparently call for help .
police be on the scene within minute .
1 dead , 2 hurt in mich . office shooting ; police say suspect have work there .
update 4 / 9 / 2007 6 : 04 pm .
a man suspect of shooting three people at a accounting firm where he have work be arrest a few hour later after a high - speed chase , authority say .
one victim die in the monday morning attack .
police say they have located anthony lacalamita , 38 , of troy on interstate 75 , north of the suburban detroit office building where the shooting take place .
on deadline : live update and local coverage .
sheriff deputy and state police chase he at speed of more than 100 mph before he finally pull over after about 15 minute , genesee county undersheriff jame gage say .
he probably realize if he do , he be go to be shoot , '' gage say .
he say lacalamita be be bring to genesee county , since it be the arrest agency .
officer find a gun in the vehicle match the description of the one use in the shooting , troy police lt . gerry scherlinck say .
some witness tell police that when the shooter walk into the office on the building second floor around 10 a . m . monday , he look as if he be try to hide something , troy police chief charle craft say .
police could say how many shot be fire .
be not positive all three of the people be target , but there appear to be some purpose , '' craft say .
the family of the two wound man request total privacy , '' and the hospital would not release any detail about they condition , beaumont hospital spokeswoman ilene wolfe say .
she say the third victim die on the way to the hospital .
lacalamita be list among the professional staff on the website of gordon advisor , a public accounting and business consulting firm in the building .
call to gordon advisor be not answer monday afternoon , and a recording say the office be close .
scherlinck describe the shooter as a former employee of one of the office who might have be terminate as recently as a week ago .
the man be arm with a long gun , either a shotgun or a rifle , scherlinck say .
the 170 , 000 - square - foot building house a number of business , include law office and the accounting firm where the shooting be believe to have occur .
police at first tell worker to stay in they office but a short time later evacuate the building , about 15 mile north of detroit .
bill adgate , who work at lpl financial inside the building , say he have hunker down inside the office for a couple of hour with furniture push up against the door .
he say police tell the group to stay put until officer allow they to leave .
it tough .
i want to get out , '' adgate say by telephone .
a man have be charge with first-degree murder after a shooting at a office christmas party in vancouver friday .
police allege eric allen kirkpatrick , 61 , open fire at the tallgrass distribution ltd christmas party , kill benjamin david banky , 40 .
banky be the ceo of tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product company .
at least a dozen employee have be celebrate when the gunman , who have be recently lay off , enter the party and begin firing a gun , accord to vancouver police spokesperson const tim fanning .
the other partygoer manage to escape unharmed .
'' the shock be tremendous but all the other people in the business - and there another dozen other people who be there for a christmas party - manage to get out safely , '' fan say .
police lock down the neighbourhood before the suspect turn himself in around 6 p.m .
police say kirkpatrick be let go on dec. 11 .
a resident who live in a nearby apartment building tell the canadian press that he do not hear gunshot , but see a woman run from the party and into a nearby auto repair shop , where it appear she call for help .
'' all of a sudden in my front yard there be five totally deck out , gear up riot squad officer with gun out of the holster , aim at the second floor of the building right beside we , '' luke pigeon say .
'' i try to open up my door and they say close you door , lock you door . '' .
mark pinder tell the canadian press that police order a group of film studio employee into the basement of they building , which be across the street from the party .
the group be just about to celebrate the completion of a project when police come knock , he say .
'' people grab a couple of bowl of chip and dip and we just sort of move the party downstairs , '' pinder say .
'' some people seem quite concerned but there be not anyone freak out or cry .
everyone be call they family and make sure that people know they be ok . '' .
pigeon say police spend about two hour negotiate with the suspect before bring he into custody .
'' they cuff he on the ground and they take he into a cruiser , '' he say .
'' he be give they a bit of grief , he be say that he cuff hurt , but he be follow order . '' .
employee who have be at the party at the time of the shooting be receive counselling from the vancouver police victim 's service team .
'' i can not emphasize enough how traumatic this would have be for the people in there to see one of they co-worker gun down , so we be go to do all we can to help these people though a very , very difficult time , '' fan say .
troy , michigan office shooting follow - up - 1 dead , 2 injured , and suspect catch .
apr 12 , 2007 .
a man suspect of shooting three people , kill one , at a accounting firm where be fire last week be arrest after a high - speed chase a few hour after the monday morning attack , authority say .
police say they have located anthony lacalamita , 38 , on interstate 75 , north of the suburban detroit office building where the shooting take place .
sheriff deputy and state police chase he for 30 mile , include through a construction zone , at speed up to 120 mph before he finally pull over after about 15 minute , genesee county sheriff robert j . pickell say .
he probably realize if he do , he be go to be shoot , ' undersheriff jame gage say .
lacalamita say nothing after officer surround he , pickell say , describe the suspect as subdue .
very , very , very subdue . ' .
officer find a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three live shell in the vehicle , pickell say .
witness say the shooter use a shotgun or a rifle , troy police lt . gerry scherlinck say . '' -lrb- fox news article -rrb- .
the suspect be finally apprehend after a high - speed chase on interstate 75 .
he be finally stop near the saginaw county and bay county border .
evidence find in the vehicle point to have apprehend the correct suspect .
officer find a gun in the vehicle match the description of the one use in the shooting , troy police lt . gerry scherlinck say .
some witness tell police that when the shooter walk into the office on the building second floor around 10 a . m . monday , he look as if he be try to hide something , troy police chief charle craft say .
police could say how many shot be fire .
be not positive all three of the people be target , but there appear to be some purpose , ' craft say .
the family of the two wound man request total privacy , ' and the hospital would not release any detail about they condition , beaumont hospital spokeswoman ilene wolfe say .
she say the third victim die on the way to the hospital .
lacalamita be list among the professional staff on the website of gordon advisor , a public accounting and business consulting firm in the building .
call to gordon advisor be not answer monday afternoon , and a recording say the office be close . '' -lrb- usa today article -rrb- .
local evening news in michigan originally report that two of the three victim die .
the subsequent car chase tie up traffic on the i - 75 corridor in flint , saginaw , and bay city , michigan for quite some time .
a former employee recently let go from he job open fire at a office christmas party friday , kill one person , police say .
'' the suspect , a 61-year-old man , enter the business , which have at least a dozen people inside enjoy a christmas party , '' police say in a statement .
police const tim fanning say the gunman enter the party around 4 p.m .
one man be shoot and kill but the other partygoer manage to escape and no one else be injure .
'' police lock down ' the neighborhood and negotiate with the suspect , who give himself up to police just after 6 : 00 p.m. , '' fan say in the statement .
the business at the location of the shooting be list as tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
luke pigeon , who live in a apartment building next door , say he do not hear a gunshot but hear a commotion outside he window .
'' it be not typical , crazy noise that sometimes happen .
you get the feeling there be something definitely , definitely wrong , '' pigeon tell the canadian press .
he look out he window and see someone flee the building next door .
'' all of a sudden in my front yard there be five totally deck out , gear up riot squad officer with gun out of the holster , aim at the second floor of the building right beside we , '' pigeon say .
he spend the next two hour in he apartment , with armed officer about 10 foot from he front window as police try to negotiate with the suspect .
finally , he hear activity as the gunman give himself up .
'' they cuff he on the ground and they take he into a cruiser , '' he say .
'' he be give they a bit of grief , he be say that he cuff hurt . '' .
police say the victim 's name would not be release until next of kin have be notify .
they say the name of the suspect would be release after he be formally charge .
break news - three people shoot in office shooting in suburban detroit .
apr 9 , 2007 .
there be break news out of troy , michigan , a suburb of detroit .
a gunman shoot three people at a suburban detroit office building monday morning , and officer be search for the shooter , police say .
the victim condition be immediately know , say troy police lt . gerry scherlinck .
a spokeswoman for beaumont hospital in royal oak say the three victim be take to the hospital but could not provide more detail .
witness tell detroit broadcast station that the shooter be a former employee of a accounting firm inside the building . '' -lrb- yahoo ! news article -rrb- .
at this time , there be no information on the whereabouts of the shooter .
however , there be additional information detail the scene of the crime .
the 170 , 000 - square - foot building house a number of business , include law office , a state farm insurance office and c accounting , where the shooting be believe to have occur .
police at first tell worker to stay in they office but a short time later evacuate the building .
police in bulletproof vest and with gun could be see go into the building , and people from inside could later be see walk quickly out through a parking lot .
the office building be about 15 mile north of detroit . -lrb- cnn news article -rrb- .
while both yahoo ! news and cnn news be report additional information regard the suspect and the situation , fox news be .
troy police lt . gerry scherlinck tell fox news that it unknown if the shooter be still in the building or if he escape but the car police believe he arrive at the building in no longer be in the parking lot .
be actively look for he and the vehicle , ' he say shortly before noon edt .
there a active search for this suspect . ' .
the suspect name be anthony calamita and he be describe by police as a 5 foot , 8 inch 38 - year - old male weigh 180 pound , with short black hair part on the side , wear a dark brown or blue sweater and navy pants .
witness tell local fox affiliate wjbk in detroit there be sound of gunfire around 10 : 30 a . m .
employee of the building tell wjbk that the shooter be a former disgruntled employee who bring a rifle into the building .
he picture be pass out to officer on the scene .
the suspect car be describe as a silver 2007 ford fusion with the license plate bey 0843 . '' -lrb- fox news article -rrb- .
additional information will follow as more detail of the incident become know .
it be unclear as to the nature of the dispute .
a former employee who open fire at a office christmas party kill one man , have be charge with first-degree murder , police say saturday .
constable tim fan allege the recently-fired man , eric allen kirkpatrick , 61 , open fire at a vancouver office friday , kill benjamin david banky , 40 .
fanning say the gunman , enter the party of at least a dozen people around 4:00 p.m .
one man be shoot and kill but the other partygoer manage to escape and no one else be injure .
'' police lock down ' the neighborhood and negotiate with the suspect , who give himself up to police just after 6:00 p.m. , '' fan say in a statement .
the business at the location of the shooting be list as tallgrass distribution ltd. , a natural health product supplier .
luke pigeon , who live in a apartment building next door , say he do not hear a gunshot but hear noise outside he window .
'' it be not typical , crazy noise that sometimes happen .
you get the feeling there be something definitely , definitely wrong , '' pigeon tell the canadian press .
he look out he window and see someone flee the building next door .
'' all of a sudden in my front yard there be five totally deck out , gear up riot squad officer with gun out of the holster , aim at the second floor of the building right beside we , '' pigeon say .
after two hour , he say , the gunman give himself up and police cuff he .
gunman kill 1 , wound 2 at accounting office .
suspect have be fire last week by troy , mich . , company .
a accounting firm employee who be fire last week shot and kill a woman and wound two man monday at the suburban detroit building where he work , then lead officer on a high - speed chase , police say .
hour after the shooting , a motorist 50 mile north of detroit spot a vehicle describe on radio report and notify authority , touch off a 30 - mile pursuit that pass through a construction zone and reach speed of 120 mph , official say .
anthony lacalamita iii , 38 , say nothing after officer surround he , genesee county sheriff robert j . pickell say .
officer find a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three live shell in the vehicle , but lacalamita as '' subdue .
very , very , very subdue , '' the sheriff say .
lacalamita '' s calmness at the conclusion belie a frantic mid - morning at the office of gordon advisor , a 40 - to 50 - employee company where worker have be busy prepare tax return .
pop , pop , pop .
'' we hear pop , pop , pop , '' smell gunpowder and hear co - worker yell , say jean larson , 48 , a staff accountant for g , a subsidiary of gordon advisor .
'' i hear one employee scream , ` he '' be get a gun .
he '' be get a gun . '' ... ... ...
it be a panic .
no one know what to do .
no one know where to go . '' .
after briefly assemble in the employee lunchroom , some employee opt to hole up inside individual office .
larson join two female co - worker , barricade the lock door with chair , turn off the light and silence they cell phone .
beneath a desk , the three curl up and keep quiet .
'' i be just so scared , '' larson say .
'' i just keep thinking , ` this can '' t be happen . '' '' .
police say the person kill be a 63 - year - old woman from warren but would not name she .
a message post monday afternoon on the accounting firm '' s web site say the office would be close tuesday in memory of madeline kafoury .
retiree have return part - time .
larson say kafoury be well - known and well - like .
she say kafoury retire last year follow the conclusion of tax season , but return part - time this year after she successor quit .
troy police lt . gerry scherlinck identify the other victim as a 47 - year - old man and a 48 - year - old man .
wolfe say the family of the wound man request privacy , and the hospital would not release any detail about they condition .
'' i '' m not positive all three of the people be target but there appear to be some purpose , '' troy police chief charle craft say .
lacalamita be be hold on charge of flee and elude police and be expect to be charge tuesday in the shooting .
lacalamita be fire last week , craft say , but still be list on the web site of gordon advisor .
call make to gordon be not answer , and a recording say the office be close .
61-year-old vancouver man charge with first-degree murder after company ceo gun down at office holiday party .
employee at a vancouver wholesaler be cope saturday with the death of they boss , who be gun down at they office christmas party .
terrify worker run scream from building after a gunman open fire at the party the day before .
a woman run scream from the office of tallgrass distribution after four loud pop be hear in the quiet vancouver street , say faud alus , owner of fijus island auto repair , a business on the same street .
terrify that she sister be trap in the office where a hooded gunman be pacing about , agitate , the woman run to the auto shop to call police , mr. ali say saturday .
in the office she and about a dozen coworker have just flee , benjamin david banky , 40 , the ceo of tallgrass , lay dead .
look through the window across the street , mr. ali tell the canadian press he could see a man stride back and forth , hold what look like a firearm .
'' we see the guy move inside the office , '' mr. ali say .
'' he be just go back and forth .
after the shot , he just put the light off .
'' it be terrifying .
i still feel shaky when i talk about it .
'' i just keep say i can not believe this , i can not believe this . '' .
police quickly respond and surround the building .
after two hour , a man surrender .
tallgrass , a wholesaler of natural health product , issue a statement saturday evening say it be '' deeply saddened by the tragic death of we president and ceo , ben banky . '' .
it describe mr. banky as '' a compassionate and dedicated leader who will be sadly miss . '' .
the statement say mr. banky co-found the company 12 year ago .
it say the company would have no further comment while the police investigation continue .
a 61-year-old vancouver man - eric allen kirkpatrick - be charge saturday with one count of first-degree murder in connection with the shooting , vancouver police say .
vancouver police spokesman constable tim fanning say the suspect have be let go from tallgrass on thursday .
he do not know how long the suspect have work at the business .
the other people at the office party be able to escape without injury , const fanning say .
'' the shock be tremendous but all the other people in the business - and a dozen other people who be there for a christmas party - manage to get out safely , '' const fanning say .
the shocked party-goer be put on bus and take to police headquarters where witness statement be take , he say .
he say counsellor have be make available to they .
'' i can not emphasize enough how traumatic this would have be for the people in there to see one of they co-worker gun down , so we be go to do all we can to help these people though a very , very difficult time , '' const fanning say .
police be call immediately and surround the building , const fanning say .
'' we determine that there be nobody else in the building , just we victim , who be decease , and the suspect , '' const fanning say .
what follow be a tense two hour while police negotiate with a suspect to give himself up .
it be not know what kind of firearm be involve .
luke pigeon , who live in a apartment building next door , say he do not hear a gunshot but be draw to he window by a commotion outside .
'' it be not typical , crazy noise that sometimes happen .
you get the feeling there be something definitely , definitely wrong , '' mr. pigeon tell the canadian press .
he look out the window and see a woman flee the building next door .
'' all i saw be a ... lady run down the block scream , '' mr. pigeon say .
he say she run into the auto repair shop and in what seem like mere minute , police be on the scene .
'' all of a sudden , in my front yard there be five totally deck out , gear up riot squad officer with gun out of the holster , aim at the second floor of the building right beside we , '' mr. pigeon say .
'' i try to open up my door and they say close you door , lock you door . '' ' .
he spend the next two hour in he apartment , as police negotiate and finally persuade a suspect to surrender .
'' they cuff he on the ground and they take he into a cruiser , '' mr. pigeon say .
'' he be give they a bit of grief , he be say that he cuff hurt , but he be follow order . '' .
mr. pigeon also commend police for they handling of the dangerous situation .
'' they manage to stop any further loss of life . '' .
mark pinder be work at a film studio across the street when a police officer bang at he window .
'' i do not realize it be a police officer right away because he be a plainclothes officer , '' mr. pinder say .
'' but then i see that he have a weapon draw . '' .
the officer tell mr. pinder to get everyone in the basement .
mr. pinder and he fellow employee be just about to begin a party to celebrate the completion of a show they have be work on .
'' people grab a couple of bowl of chip and dip and we just sort of move the party downstairs , '' mr. pinder say .
'' some people seem quite concerned but there be not anyone freak out or cry , '' mr. pinder say .
'' everyone be call they family and make sure that people know that they be okay . '' .
work place killing be rare , police say .
'' it be something no business can prepare for , '' const fanning say .
jury find suspect in troy office shooting guilty .
on april 30 , 2008 at 4 : 31 am , update april 30 , 2008 at 8 : 33 be .
a jury on tuesday convict a man charge in a april 2007 shooting at a troy accounting firm that leave a receptionist dead and two manage partner wound .
anthony lacalamita iii be find guilty of first - degree murder and assault with intent to murder in the shotgun slaying of 63 - year - old madeline kafoury and assault with intent to kill in the shooting of paul riva and alan steinberg at the accounting firm .
defense attorney jerome fenton argue lacalamita extensive history of mental illness be to blame .
assistant oakland county prosecutor rob novy say the 39 - year - old troy man shoot he former co - worker because he be furious over he firing four day earlier .
a just fire employee of a canadian health product company crash the office christmas party in vancouver , kill the chief executive officer , police say .
vancouver police identify the victim of the friday night shooting at the tallgrass distributor ltd .
christmas party as benjamin banky , 40 , the canadian broadcasting corp. report .
police say eric allen kirkpatrick , 61 , surrender after two hour of negotiation with police and be charge saturday with first-degree murder , the cbc report .
kirkpatrick have be dismiss from he job thursday .
authority say they do not know how long he have work at tallgrass or the reason for he termination .
other employee of tallgrass distributor ltd. escape unharmed , the vancouver sun report .
'' a man who apparently have just be let go from he job there come in , shot and kill another man , '' police constable tim fanning say .
'' we negotiator get on the phone with he right away , and fortunately be able to talk he down from he very , very excited and upset state . '' .
police block the street in the mount pleasant neighborhood .
employee of other company in the area be ask to stay where they be until the surrender .
tallgrass distribute product base on hemp , include body dope , a brand of skincare product .
mich . accountant charge with murder in office shooting .
update 4 / 11 / 2007 1 : 26 pm .
a fire accountant accuse of wound two former boss in a shotgun attack and kill a receptionist who try to stop he be arraign wednesday on murder and other charge .
anthony lacalamita iii , 38 , have be arrest follow a high - speed chase a few hour after the monday morning shooting at gordon advisor in suburban detroit .
during he arraignment wednesday , authority describe what witness see inside the office that morning .
lacalamita be hide the gun when he walk into accounting firm office , stop briefly at the reception desk and then enter alan steinberg office , troy police sgt . barry whiteside testify .
steinberg , a partner in the firm , tell police lacalamita load a shell into the shotgun chamber and shoot he in the hip , then walk toward the office of paul riva , another partner .
when receptionist madeline kafoury try to stop he at riva door , the gunman fatally shoot she in the midsection , whiteside say .
lacalamita then fire at riva , hit he in the upper chest , and leave the building , whiteside say .
riva have yet to regain consciousness wednesday and be on a ventilator , police say .
as whiteside talk in court , kafoury adult daughter sob uncontrollably .
she be just a receptionist ... ... ... .
she be we mom and the grandmother of we child , '' kafoury son , charlie , say after the hearing .
she be a essential point of we life . '' .
not guilty plea be enter on lacalamita behalf to charge of first - degree murder , intent to murder , possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony and flee and elude police .
ask by the judge if he understand the charge against he and if he be aware that he could be sentence to life in prison without the possibility of parole if convict of first - degree murder , he respond yes . '' .
the judge order he hold without bail pend he next court hearing april 19 .
troy police lt . gerry scherlinck say riva and steinberg appear to have be the target in the shooting .
lacalamita have be fire last thursday as a general accountant at the firm and buy a shotgun and shell on friday , scherlinck say .
he say police find a box consistent with one that would hold a shotgun , as well as empty shell box , in a dumpster outside lacalamita apartment monday evening .
when lacalamita be arrest , police say they find a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three shell in he vehicle .
matthew roth , executive staff attorney for the prosecutor office , say he office have not be tell if lacalamita or he family have retain a lawyer .
lacalamita be marry , but he wife , michele , release a statement say they have be separate for about three week .
accord to real estate record obtain by the associated press , the couple during the past year actively buy and sell suburban home .
record list michele lacalamita as the owner of all four .
riva , 47 , of sterling height and steinberg , 48 , of macomb county bruce township , be be treat at beaumont hospital , where spokeswoman ilene wolff say the family of the wound man ask that they condition and other information not be release .
gordon advisor issue a statement tuesday express condolence to the family of the victim .
we be especially devastate by the death of madeline kafoury and we heart go out to she family .
maddie be revere by client , employee and owner alike , '' the statement say .
we express we gratitude to we employee for they bravery on monday and for they support in the day to come . '' .
one man be dead after a ex-employee open fire at he company 's christmas party at a vancouver , b.c. business friday night .
just past 4 p.m. friday , vancouver police receive a call of a man be shoot at 40 east 5th ave. at a business call tall grass distribution limit .
police say a recently lay off employee open fire shortly after enter the party , kill one male employee at least a dozen worker be at the party at the time .
a 61-year-old man surrender to police shortly after 6 p.m .
he be currently in custody and he identity will not be release until charge be formally lay .
police lock down the busy neighbourhood for almost three hour while they negotiate with the suspect , direct traffic away from ontario street .
employee at the party have be question by police and have be shuttle out by bus for further investigation .
police say they be receive counseling from its victim service unit .
employee at neighbouring business be force to hide inside they office during the shooting .
the name of the decease will not be release until next of kin be notify .
fire accountant go on shooting spree .
on apr 12 2007 .
a fire accountant buy a shotgun the day after he lose he job , then return to the office the follow week and open fire on he boss , wound both and kill a receptionist , the associated press report .
troy , mich . police say anthony lacalamita iii , 38 , target two manager and also may have intend to shoot another one .
there be a suspicion that there might have be a third upper management official he be seek , '' say troy police lt . gerry scherlinck .
the man , whom police do not identify , be not in the office at the time of the attack .
lacalamita have be fire last thursday as a general accountant at the firm and buy a shotgun and shell on friday , scherlinck say .
he say police find a box consistent with one that would hold a shotgun , as well as empty shell box , in a dumpster outside lacalamita apartment monday evening .
when lacalamita be arrest , police say they find a 12 - gauge pump - action shotgun and three shell in he vehicle .
scherlinck say lacalamita have be deny a handgun permit in march but it be clear why .
anthony lacalamita iii , 38 , have be arrest follow a high - speed chase shortly after the monday morning shooting at gordon advisor in suburban detroit .
during lacalamita arraignment , authority describe what witness see inside the accounting firm office that morning .
lacalamita walk in around 10 a . m . , stop briefly at the reception desk , then enter alan steinberg office with the shotgun , troy police sgt . barry whiteside testify .
steinberg , a partner in the firm , later tell police lacalamita load a shell into the shotgun chamber and fire at he , hit he in the hip area .
he then walk toward the office of paul riva , another partner .
receptionist madeline kafoury be stand in the doorway of riva office , and the gunman fatally shoot she in the midsection , whiteside say .
lacalamita shot riva in the upper chest , then leave the building , whiteside say .
he be go when officer swarm the office building and begin evacuate other worker , then be arrest a few hour later after a chase on a nearby interstate .
riva have yet to regain consciousness wednesday and be on a ventilator , police say .
lacalamita be charge with first - degree murder in the death of kafoury , 63 , and intent to murder in the shooting of riva , 47 , and steinberg , 48 .
he also be charge with possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony and flee and elude police .
a not guilty plea be enter on lacalamita behalf during the hearing .
ask by the judge if he understand the charge against he and if he be aware that he could be sentence to life in prison without the possibility of parole if convict of first - degree murder , he respond yes . '' .
the judge order he hold without bail pend he next court hearing april 19 .
the judge say he would appoint a lawyer for lacalamita .
he do not have a representative in court wednesday .
lacalamita be marry , but he wife , michele , release a statement say they have be separate for about three week .
accord to real estate record obtain by the associated press , the couple during the past year actively buy and sell suburban home .
record list michele lacalamita as the owner of all four .
riva and steinberg be be treat at beaumont hospital , where spokeswoman ilene wolff say the family of the wound man ask that they condition and other information not be release .
a former employee walk into a staff christmas party at a east vancouver health product business friday and allegedly shot and kill a man .
police say they be call to tallgrass distributor ltd. , at 40 east fifth avenue , where a 61-year-old man carry a firearm have confront the crowd .
const tim fanning say the man , who have recently lose he job at tallgrass , walk into the party and point the gun at the victim .
he then let about a dozen employee leave before hole up inside the office building with the victim .
hostage negotiator be call in to get the man out of the building .
he finally surrender at 6 p.m. and be arrest .
fan could not say if anyone else be in the building at the time , but say no one else be injure .
police use a neighbouring office as a base for the negotiation .
nigel hacker , who run intarsia design out of a heritage home at 2016 ontario , say he be in he office wait for people to attend a meeting at about 4 : 20 p.m .
he look outside to see the street cordon off .
police set up shop at the office and begin try to coax the gunman out of the building around the corner at 40 east 5th avenue .
'' there be someone in the building and they be try to get he out , '' hacker say .
'' i try not to listen . '' .
but he catch the tone of the conversation .
'' it be not emotional from this end , '' he say .
'' everything seem under control they do a great job . '' .
just before 7 p.m. friday , the light be still blaze at the two-storey 1950s-style office building , which be decorate with a christmas tree and santa make of cotton wool .
early on , about a dozen police officer mill about outside secure the building , while other block nearby intersection and direct traffic away from ontario street .
a coast mountain bus be call in to collect witness , translink spokesman draw snider say .
office around the neighbourhood be shut down , with staff either tell to stay indoors or escort outside to they car or other transport .
lorin pearce , a executive assistant at focus audio visual service on west fifth , say she see what appear to be a police officer with a gun at the corner of fifth and ontario .
she do not know the focus of the police attention , but say the corner be home to several business .
when some employee try to leave , they be tell by police to stay inside the office until further notice , she say around 5 : 30 p.m .
'' a couple of we try to exit and they say , please go back inside , ' '' .
pearce say , add she be not afraid for she own safety .
staff at fiji island auto , across the street from tallgrass , be tell to close shop at 5:30 p.m. and be escort by police off the premise .
down the street , john christie , head of house production for paperny film at fifth and quebec , say employee be plan to hold a office party upstairs when someone hear shot fire and the police come knock at they door .
'' we have be ask by the police to stay away from the window and we have be force to go downstairs , '' christie say .
'' we be have a office party anyway so we be just stay out of the way , undercover .
if we be in a lockdown , at least we have beer and pizza . '' .
christie say the police , who place a undercover officer at paperny 's front door , be not please when some office worker flee through the back alley to get home .
a employee of another nearby business , relaxus massage product , say staff be escort to they car by police so they could go home .
tallgrass claim it be the fastest-growing natural-health-product supplier to the natural health industry in canada .
it be originally call tallgrass hemp company , and supply a variety of product base on the hemp plant , include body dope , a line of hair and skin-care product make with hemp and other botanical .
product also include shampoo , conditioner , therapeutic lotion and soap .
shooting at accounting firm leave woman dead and 2 hurt .
publish : april 10 , 2007 .
a man who be fire last week from he job at a accounting firm in suburban detroit walk into he former office with a shotgun on monday and shoot three people , kill one , before flee and lead police officer on a high - speed chase , the authority say .
the suspect , identify as anthony lacalamita , enter the second - floor office of the accounting firm , gordon advisor , about 10 a . m . and open fire , the police say .
a 63 - year - old woman and two man , age 47 and 48 , be shoot , the police say .
the woman , identify by the police as madeline kafoury , die at the scene , the authority say .
the two other victim be be treat at beaumont hospital in royal oak .
ilene wolff , a spokeswoman for the hospital , say that they family have request privacy , and that the hospital be not release any information about they condition or the nature of they injury .
though the police decline to release the name of the two man , the detroit free press identify they as paul riva , 47 , of sterling height and alan steinberg , 48 , of bruce township .
both be partner in the firm , the newspaper report .
mr . lacalamita , 38 , who be still list on the firm '' s web site as a member of its '' professional staff , '' have be dismiss last week , the police say .
though they would not say what he relationship be with any of the victim or what lead to the shooting , '' it doesn '' t appear it be random , '' the troy police chief , charle craft , say .
officer and witness describe a chaotic scene immediately after the shooting as worker barricade themselves in they cubicle and office .
a few hour later , some employee gather outside the building but would not speak to reporter .
the three - story office building house other tenant in addition to the accounting firm , and appear to have no formal security system , chief craft say .
he say witness tell the police that mr . lacalamita have walk into the building and into the firm '' s unlock suite as though he be conceal something .
mr . lacalamita flee in he car before officer arrive , but witness take note of the license plate number , the authority say .
about two hour after the shooting , officer receive a tip from a motorist in flint , about 50 mile north of here , on the whereabouts of the car .
police officer chase mr . lacalamita for about 30 mile at speed of up to 120 mile a hour on interstate 75 before apprehend he near bay city .
fresh wave of rioting hit greece .
there be be more rioting in greece in protest at the death of 15-year-old alexandro grigoropoulo .
the teenager be shoot and kill by police in athen eight day ago , trigger violent protest which have spread across the country .
the teenager be shoot and kill by police in athen eight day ago , trigger violent protest which have spread across the country .
the latest trouble begin as protestor gather in the capital city to target the station where the policeman charge with alexandro ' murder be base .
earlier , several peaceful service have be hold to remember the teenager .
advice if you be upset by the news .
at least 70 people have be hurt in the protest over the past eight day .
as the riot have continue , more and more people have be call for the greek prime minister costa karamanlis and he government to quit .
but mr karamanlis say he will not be push out by the protestor .
dozen riot over nypd fatal shooting of brooklyn teen .
yesterday , the police explain that officer shoot and kill a 16 - year - old kimanus gray in brooklyn because he allegedly point a gun at the cop .
however , he relative be skeptical of the police account sister mahnefah gray say , he have common sense ... ... ...
they kill my little brother for no reason . '' .
tonight , a crowd gather to mourn he death protest police treatment .
police say two brooklyn south anti crime plainclothes officer have be on patrol when they notice young male near 473 east 52nd street .
accord to the nypd statement , the cop notice one break away from the group upon notice the police .
the male ... ... ... adjust he waistband and continue to act in a suspicious manner .
the officer exit they unmarked auto and attempt to engage the suspect , who turn on they , and point a . 38 caliber revolver at the officer .
both officer fire at the suspect , striking he about the body . '' .
a witness tell the daily news the cop , they just jump out of the car so fast , .
they start shoot he and he go down , he be bleed , hold he side , scream , stop , stop . ' .
another witness describe the scene to pix11 , he be run for he life , tell the cop , stop . ' .
they really be , seriously , walk around , shooting little kid . '' .
tonight , a large crowd gather to remember gray , and it apparently become unruly as the crowd walk between the shooting location and the 67th precinct at snyder avenue near nostrand be report that bottle be throw at police officer .
nbc new york estimate the crowd at 70 , and the post say a crowd loot a rite aid .
the manager say , they pour in here like 40 or 50 of they .
they pull the register off the counter , they flip over everything .
they punch I in the face .
several of they do , not just one -lsb- person . -rsb- .
it be insane . '' .
city council member jumaane william lament that a peaceful vigil that devolve into a riot .
the youth in this community have no outlet for they anger , no community center . '' .
nypd spokesman paul browne have say yesterday , after the anti - crime sergeant and police officer tell the suspect to show he hand , which be hear by witness , gray produce a revolver and point it at the officer , who fire a total of 11 round , striking gray several time . '' .
police source also tell the news that gray have four prior arrest , include charge of grand larceny , possession of steal property and incite a riot . '' .
still , gray sister mahnefah gray say that a witness tell she that kimanus be adjust for he belt and that even if he have a gun , he would point it at the police .
at this point -lrb- 10 : 30 p . m . -rrb- , the police say that the crowd have disperse and that there be one arrest , with no injury to police or civilian -lrb- the post say three people be injure -rrb- .
more protest ahead in greece .
greek student announce new rally on sunday after another night of violence over the police shooting of a teenager .
a police station in athen be firebomb on saturday night .
it be next to the exarchia district where alexis grigoropoulo , 15 , be kill by a police bullet on 6 december .
the officer who fire the shot say he kill the boy accidentally in self-defence due to a bullet ricochet .
a ballistics report be yet to be make public .
police say they make 86 arrest over the course of saturday 's protest .
pamphlet announce rally in front of the athen police headquarters on monday and in parliament square on thursday .
opposition socialist be press for fresh election .
however , prime minister costa karamanlis have dismiss call to quit , say the country need '' a steady hand on the helm '' to deal with the current financial crisis .
large riot break out in brooklyn during vigil for teen shot 11 time by police .
monday , march 11 , 2013 23 : 51 .
police intervene when more than a hundred people join in a candlelit vigil in the east flatbush neighborhood in brooklyn , new york , where 16 - year - old kimanus gray be shoot 11 time by police on saturday , accord to russiatoday .
brooklynite on twitter report that police follow the march and search apartment building in the neighborhood without warrant , look for child who have be see throw bottle at police from neighborhood rooftop .
march participant chant '' nypd kkk how many kid will you kill today , '' people report from the scene .
'' i '' m in the middle of the riot action at church and snyder in my district .
right now , thing be tense , '' new york city councilman jumaane d . william , who represent the area , say on twitter .
sixteen - year - old kimanus gray be shoot and kill on saturday night after , police say , point a gun at approach cop .
accord to the officer involve in the shooting , the teenager adjust he belt '' suspiciously , '' and after they exit they vehicle to investigate , he point a . 357 caliber revolver at they .
both officer fire at the suspect , hit gray eleven time in he torso and leg .
witness say gray , who be run for he life when he be shoot , do not have a gun .
'' stay down , or we '' ll shoot you again , '' police say once gray have be hit , accord to the new york time .
after the shooting gray be rush to a hospital but be declare dead on arrival .
ricochet kill greek teenager .
initial result from the post mortem on a 15-year-old greek boy whose killing by police spark five day of rioting show alexandro grigoropoulo die from a bullet ricochet .
accord to forensic doctor and independent expert hire by the grigoropoulo family , the bullet '' be a bit deform , which show the bullet touch a hard surface '' before enter the boy 's chest , court source say last night .
the news come as two police officer charge over the shooting prepare to go before a magistrate and riot police fire tearga at thousand of demonstrator advance on the national parliament building in athen .
'' now that we have these conclusion , which be in line with what my client have indicate , they will give they statement to the judge , '' say alexis kouyia , the lawyer for policeman epaminonda korkonea and vassilis saraliotis .
amid anger towards the police compound by the unpopularity of the government of prime minister costa karamanlis , greece be still await a final ballistics report expect to shed light on mr korkoneas 's statement that the bullet bounce up off a pavement after he have fire warn shot to disperse a mob .
alexandro be allegedly among a group of 30 youth that have throw stone at the squad car in the exarchia district of athen , which be know as a stronghold of political radical .
riot police fire tearga at youth throw molotov cocktail outside parliament last night , as a general strike paralyse greece and raise pressure on a fragile government reel from four day of riot spark by the police shooting .
the clash escalate into run battle through the city centre , with riot police firing volley of tearga at mask youth pelt they with rock , bottle and block of marble smash from the athen metro station entrance .
the youth smash window newly replace after four day of the worst riot greece have see in decade .
more than 10,000 people have be march through central athen to protest the conservative government 's economic policy in a general strike that have shut down school , public service and hospital and ground flight .
although the strike and demonstration have be schedule long before the riot break out , they have take on the added form of protest against the government 's handling of the riot .
fury at report clearing greek police over death of schoolboy .
greek have react with fury to a official report which conclude a schoolboy whose death trigger riot across the country be kill by a accidental ricochet .
the finding come as a nationwide strike paralyse greece , with bank , school and shop close , flight in and out of the country halt and even the parthenon bar to tourist .
the fatal shooting of alexis grigoropoulo , 15 , on saturday spark five day of riot and demonstration across greece after witness claim that the police officer deliberately take aim at the teenager .
but the lawyer act for the officer , who have be charge with murder , say that initial result from a post-mortem show that the boy be accidentally hit by a ricochet .
forensic expert say the bullet be '' a bit deform '' , suggest that it have bounce off a hard surface before hit grigoropoulo in the chest .
lawyer alexis kougia say : '' this tragedy be the result ... of a act by the policeman to fire into the air .
the bullet ricochet , we have a entry wound from above .
it prove irrefutably that it be a ricochet . '' .
but the ten of thousand of student who have take to the street of a dozen greek city this week have point out similarity to the case of another 15-year-old , michalis kalteza , who be kill by a officer during a demonstration in athen in 1985 .
the officer accuse of shoot he in the back of the head be initially convict of murder but be later find innocent after a appeal .
anthony livanio , a political analyst and pollster , say : '' people will not buy it and there be a possibility that it will make thing worse .
it will be meet with cynicism .
even if it be true , which it might be , it will be see as a cover-up . '' .
protester throw two petrol bomb at athens 's main courthouse where the officer and he partner be question by a magistrate .
they also attack a television crew 's truck , injure at least two people .
in athen ' main constitution square , where 10,000 gather for a anti-government demonstration , riot police guard parliament fire tear gas at demonstrator who attack they with petrol bomb and cobblestone .
youth smash window which have only just be replace from previous rioting .
student chant '' pig ! murderer ! '' clap and cheer each time a riot policeman be hit by a rock .
business owner have accuse the police of fail to protect they property as rioter rampage through some of athen ' best know shopping area .
although police have respond when directly attack , they stand back as gang of youth smash window , torch rubbish bin and set light to car .
the cost of damage to shop and business in athen alone be estimate by the greek commerce confederation at about 200 million euro .
'' in athen , we have 565 shop suffer serious damage or be completely destroy '' , say vassilis krokidis , vice president of the federation .
greece have enter a period of intense soul search over the violence , the worst since the country 's military dictatorship be bring down in 1974 .
'' there be acute shame and embarrassment about what have happen , '' say mr livanio .
'' it be unacceptable that in 2008 , in a country which be a member of the eu and nato , the government can not establish public order two week before christmas , athen look like downtown beirut . '' .
the prime minister , costa karamanlis , have ignore mount call for he resignation .
a opinion poll for the respected kathimerinus newspaper find that 68 per cent of greek believe the government have mishandle the crisis include nearly half of respondent who vote for mr karamanlis ' conservative party in last year 's election .
'' for four day , greece have surrender itself to flame and anarchy , '' say a editorial in the conservative daily elefthero typo .
'' the volatile situation appear out of control , with the police appear unable to deal with the situation ... .
politician appear to have fall dramatically short of the task at hand . '' .
greek police charge over boy 's death .
a greek police officer have be formally charge with voluntary homicide over the killing of a teenager that spark nationwide riot , a court source say .
epaminonda korkonea , 37 , have also be charge with the '' illegal use '' of he service weapon over the killing of alexis grigoropoulo and be order to remain in custody by a athens magistrate .
the officer 's partner , vassilios saraliotis , 31 , be charge with be a accomplice and will also remain in custody , the same source say today .
the pair have each be hold since monday .
accord to the charge sheet , mr korkonea kill grigoropoulo on sunday during a clash with around 30 youth in the central athen district of exarchia , a incident which spark this week 's violence .
under question , the court source say mr korkonea indicate he have act out of self defence when the group begin throw firebomb and other object while shout they '' be go to kill they '' .
the officer say that he take out he revolver and fire two or three time in the air out of self defence and that he have not aim he gun at the victim who die from a ricochet .
ballistics test conduct in the wake of the 15-year-old 's post-mortem reportedly show the shooting may have be cause by a ricochet bullet , legal source earlier say .
accord to forensic expert and independent expert act for the grigoropoulo family , the bullet '' be a bit deform , which show the bullet touch a hard surface '' before enter the boy 's chest .
mr saraliotis also say he act out of self defence during the unrest which trigger five day of rioting in athen and elsewhere across greece .
greece rock by more clash over teenager 's shooting .
fresh riot be report in greece on saturday december 13 2008 in protest at the killing by police of a 15-year-old boy , alexandro grigoropoulo , eight day ago .
the disturbance have ben describe as the most serious in greece since student protest that precede the fall of the military junta in 1974 .
violent clash break out in the capital , athen , follow a day of demonstration .
the protest in memory of the teenager have be initially peaceful .
student of the school attend by grigoropoulo hold a silent vigil during the day in syntagma square .
hour later , hundred of other bring candle to the site , while other gather at the site of the shooting .
but later , about 100 youth hurl volley of petrol bomb and rock at a police station in the exarchia district , where the officer , who shoot he and have now be charge with murder , be base .
the protester chant '' murderer out '' .
later , hooded and mask protester target a commercial area near the national technical university of athen , know as the polytechnic , overturn car and set fire to three bank .
several shop and a office of the environment ministry be also attack .
riot police position at street corner in the area respond by firing tear gas at the protester .
unrest have now spread throughout the country , prompt call for greece 's conservative prime minister costa karamanlis and he government to stand down .
brooklyn neighborhood be a powder keg after teen kill by police .
mar . 14 , 2013 , 8 : 12 pm .
hostility have be mount this week in east flatbush , brooklyn , after two plainclothes police officer fatally shoot 16 - year - old kimanus gray after he allegedly point a revolver at they on saturday night .
on monday a group of about 130 people be march toward the 67th police precinct station when about two dozen young protester splintered off -- draw riot police -- and trash a rite aid .
tuesday the crowd be mostly calm , but on wednesday -- the same day gray autopsy show he have be shoot seven time -- part of the 200 person crowd become unruly .
the night begin with hope that gray mother would speak at a vigil alongside mother of local shooting victim , but the night turn when about 30 young man show up in the shadow across the street .
they be stay in the dark area of the street , '' a witness tell cnn .
you just know it be go to turn into the cop try to contain those kid who be obviously gon go for it .
that just stop the original intention of the night . '' .
the witness say the teenager suddenly take off , fan through street and side street , follow by the sound of glass breaking and metal store - front gate be pull down .
protester begin throw brick and bottle while cop begin pepper - spray and arrest .
by the end a officer face and the window of a police van have be hit with brick , and 46 people have be arrest .
the string of incident have amplify the distrustful friction between the neighborhood informal crew of armed teenager and its aggressive police , whom resident say make prejudiced decision base on race .
kenneth j . montgomery , a attorney for the gray family , tell the la time that the police patrol these neighborhood like they '' be paramilitary . '' .
'' -lsb- the police -rsb- have a hard time because there '' be a lot of crime in the neighborhood , '' a local barber tell the new york time .
'' but when they play hardball , they end up go after innocent people , too . '' .
police say that on saturday around 11 : 30 p . m . kimanus gray be stand outside he home with five other young man before splitting off when he notice two plainclothes officer in a unmarked car .
after he adjust he waistband and continue to act in a suspicious manner , '' official say the cop get out of they car and approach gray -- who allegedly turn toward they with a load . 38 - caliber revolver in hand .
the 30 - year - old sergeant and 26 - year - old fire 11 shot -- the autopsy show that seven bullet enter gray body , three of they from the rear .
a revolver load with four bullet be reportedly recover from the scene .
police commissioner raymond kelly tell the new york time there be '' nothing to indicate that this shooting be outside the guideline '' while john c . cerar , the former commander for firearm train at the police department , say it appear to be a good shooting '' under the report circumstance .
that statement do pacify neighborhood resident , who question the official story -- some in the community not believe gray have a gun -- and perceive the officer behavior as part of a larger trend of nypd antagonism .
'' we '' be talk about a powder keg out here .
any incident could trigger it , '' city councilman charle barron tell the la time .
on wednesday tension seem to be decrease until mahnefah gray , sister of the teen kill by police , be arrest while cross the street , '' accord to danny gold of metropolis .
day six of the greek youth revolt .
protest , riot and clash with police have overtake greece for the sixth straight day since the fatal police shooting of a teenage boy in athen saturday night .
one day after wednesday 's massive general strike over pension reform and privatization shut down the country , more than a hundred school and at least fifteen university campus remain occupy by student demonstrator .
a major rally be expect on friday .
and as solidarity protest spread to neighbor turkey , as well as germany , spain , italy , russia , denmark and the netherland , dozen of arrest have be make across the continent .
on wednesday , two police officer involve in saturday 's shooting be arrest , and one be charge with murder .
but anger remain high over the officer ' failure to express remorse at the student 's death .
the police officer claim the bullet that kill alexandro grigoropoulo be fire in self-defense , and the death be a accident cause by a ricochet .
the unrest this week have be describe as the worst since the end of the military dictatorship in 1974 and could cost the already weaken greek economy a estimate hundred of million of dollar .
it be also shake the country 's conservative government that have a narrow one-person majority in parliament .
the socialist opposition have increase call for the prime minister to quit and call new election , ignore he appeal for national unity .
i be join now on the telephone by a student activist and writer from athen .
he be with the greek socialist worker party .
he be a graduate student in political philosophy at panteion university in athen .
we welcome you to democracy now ! can you lay out for we exactly when this all begin and how the protest have escalate and what they be about right now , niko lounto ?
sunday , march 17 , 2013 | 5 : 00 pm .
riot erupt follow death of brooklyn teen kill by police .
in the week follow the fatal shooting of 16 - year - old kimanus gray , several protest and riot have erupt in the teen brooklyn neighborhood as the cop involve have come under scrutiny for previous report civil rights violation .
gray be kill on march 9 by police who claim he point a gun at sgt . mourad mourad and officer jovaniel cordova before they open fire .
a autopsy show that gray be hit in the back by three of the seven bullet fire by the officer .
a load . 38 - caliber revolver be find at the scene .
since the shooting , over 50 arrest have be make over four night of protest where community member be express outrage and demand justice .
gray school principal , matthew willoughby of the urban assembly school of design and construction , write a heartfelt letter describe the teen as a hard - work student who be commit to he academic .
kimanus make great stride this year academically , '' the letter read .
'' he be take a extra english class after school ; he be write a dramatic dialogue in another english class ; he group in design class be work on a project to design a school .
now they be work to complete the project without he . '' .
kimanus should be remember for all of who he be energetic , kind , playful , independent young man who be try to learn and grow one day at a time , '' willoughby letter continue .
in the day follow gray death , it be reveal that both mourad and cordova have reportedly be name in five federal lawsuit with plaintiff allege civil rights violation .
as a result , the two man have reportedly cost the city about 215 , 000 in court settlement .
in 2009 and 2010 , mourad be sue three time with allegation include a stop - and - frisk in which mourad and fellow cop pull down a suspect underwear , and a illegal arrest in which the plaintiff say he be slam into a car .
cordova be sue in 2011 and 2012 , with one plaintiff claim the cop punch he in the eye .
greece calm after 8 day of riot by angry youth .
athen be calm sunday after eight day of the worst riot greece have see in decade , spark by the police killing of a teenager .
traffic return to normal in the center of town and a open-topped double-decker bus carry tourist round the city 's main sight .
the popular cafe in the thissio area under the acropolis be busy , and couple take they young child for a sunday walk .
but greek youth who have protest daily since the boy 's death have vow to remain on the street until they concern be address .
protester be angry not just at the police but at a increasingly unpopular government and over economic issue .
a newspaper poll publish sunday show the govern conservative ' popularity at a dismal 20.6 percent , 5.6 percent below the main opposition socialist .
however , 55 percent of respondent say neither party seem competent to handle the situation .
the focus poll of 1,000 people for real news give a 3.1 percent margin of error .
violence have wrack greece every day since the death of 15-year-old alexandro grigoropoulo , spread quickly from athen to more than a dozen other city and leave at least 70 people injure .
hundred of store have be smash and loot , and more than 200 people arrest .
late saturday and early sunday , youth in athen attack a police station , store and bank and fight run battle with police , as candlelit vigil be hold to mark a week since the shooting .
a new candlelit vigil be plan for sunday evening at the site of the shooting .
a separate protest be schedule in western athen .
while most of the protester have be peaceful , the tone of the demonstration have be set by a violent fringe .
and more young people have be willing to join those fringe element than in the past .
'' in the end , the violence that we use be minimal in comparison to the violence the system use , like the bank , '' say 32-year-old protester pari kyriakide .
'' speak as a anarchist , we want to create those social condition that will generate more uprising and to get more people out in the street to demand they rights . '' .
in a poll release sunday , some 62 percent of respondent say the reaction to the shooting be inexcusable , compare with 35 percent who believe the violence be justified .
the poll of 1,000 people give no margin of error .
accord to another poll , greek see more in the violence than a simple reaction to the shooting .
ask whether the riot be a social uprising , 60 percent respond yes .
some 64 percent consider police be unprepared for the violence .
the poll of 520 people publish in the kathimerinus newspaper give a 4.5 percent margin of error .
enraged protester battle cop in brooklyn street during third night of rioting after it reveal that 16 - year - old kimanus gray be shoot in the back .
as fight between cop and angry teens erupt in east flatbush , 46 be arrest wednesday night .
police struggle to control a furious crowd that break away from a plan peaceful vigil .
publish : wednesday , march 13 , 2013 , 2 : 29 pm .
update : thursday , march 14 , 2013 , 9 : 31 be .
protester enrage over the fatal shooting of a teenager by police pour into brooklyn street for a third straight night wednesday , pitch brick , bottle and garbage in furious clash with cop .
at least 46 demonstrator be arrest along church ave . in east flatbush .
police struggle to control a hostile crowd that break away from a plan peaceful vigil for kimanus -lrb- kikus -rrb- gray , 16 , kill by police on saturday night .
gray '' s sister mahnefeh be among those arrest .
a police officer suffer a gash in the face when a toss brick hit he , nypd spokesman paul browne say , and a window be smash in a inspector '' s car .
'' they didn '' t have to kill he , '' makaeo williams , 18 , say as police on motorcycle track alongside he .
'' i '' m feeling mad inside .
i '' m angry .
that '' s why i '' m out here . '' .
many in the community contest police allegation that gray point a gun at cop when he be shoot during a confrontation with two plainclothes officer on e . 52nd st . saturday night .
those suspicion on the street intensify wednesday when a autopsy report reveal gray be hit by seven bullet -- three to the back .
it be not clear in what order the shot strike the teen or whether he have he back to the police when they open fire .
a witness tell the daily news tuesday that the youth do not have a gun in he hand .
but a police spokesman say the witness tell detective she couldn '' t see the incident clearly '' from the angle i be at . '' .
a woman who identify herself as gray '' s cousin tell news outlet wednesday that the teen be carry a gun for a friend and be try to alert cop that he have a weapon when he be shoot .
a load . 38 - caliber revolver be recover at the scene .
the trouble wednesday night begin soon after more than 200 people set off from the vigil site at church ave . and e . 55th st . around 8 : 30 p . m .
dozen chant '' nypd , kkk , how many kid do you kill today '' as they march west on church ave . toward the 67th precinct stationhouse .
but thing quickly get out of hand as some protester try to climb on police motorcycle .
man and woman be pepper - spray and throw to the ground and handcuff .
'' i '' m scare for everything , myself , my store , my worker , '' say salm samus , 45 , who own the deli , grill & grocery at church and new york ave .
'' this be three day of this . '' .
the protester eventually backtrack to the vigil site where the parent of ramarley graham -- a unarmed teenager fatally shoot by police in the bronx last year -- be wait .
'' it never seem to end , '' say frank graham , ramarley '' s father .
'' the community have a right to be angry . '' .
but city councilman jumaane william , a frequent nypd critic , blast outsider who he say escalate tension .
'' please stay the hell out of we community will only agitate we kid , '' william fume on twitter .
'' it '' be dangerous and counterproductive . '' .
violent protest in europe bear out of deeper frustration .
they grip rock and stone , look ready for a fight .
but the five young man - son of a dentist , merchant , a state tax collector - stand in the shadow of the university of athen before another day of battle in the greek capital 's run street protest .
'' what i feel when i see this , '' say one young man , a hard plastic helmet cover he curly brown hair , '' be that i be loving my city more than ever .
because we be all here .
because we be discuss , really , what be go on here .
the system have fail we .
the politician fail we . '' .
'' i do feel bad when i see property burn , '' say a man wear ski goggles and a dark blue jacket .
'' but this be a statement , a manifestation of what we see have go wrong here . '' .
for more than a week , greece have be shake by a rebellion .
a deadly police shooting dec. 6 in athen of alexandro grigoropoulo , 15 , be kill touch off the first riot .
then something else stir .
a coming-of-age generation from thessalonikus to athen rise up to attack dozen of police station , occupy university campus and prompt the closing of the international airport .
some of they demand be immediate .
they want police ban from carry gun .
other be less define .
they be look for government to change .
the center-right government of costa karamanli , increasingly unpopular amid mount economic problem , do not anticipate or understand how the anger have spiral .
the youth be suddenly lash out at all that ail greece : a weak government , a economy that remain one of the poorest of the european union and they own bleak job prospects .
they loot business , pelted police with stone and run amok near government bank , office and university campus with molotov cocktail .
about 100 people have be injure .
property damage be a estimate $ 2 million .
talk of what happen in athen and thessalonikus have spread to italy and spain , which have have protest of they own .
few of the dozen people interview in athen say they have a permanent job or a job that guarantee a pension .
many older spectator say they be sympathetic - even if they do not like the ruin leave behind .
'' i feel sorry for the young , '' say 40-year-old tsikala stephania , a public sector worker .
'' they do not see much of a future , and they have to show they wrath in some way . '' .
brooklyn riot over teen death : 16 - year - old shot by cop do not have a gun , say witness .
tishana king say she see the whole incident from a bird eye view in she brooklyn apartment .
she say she certain slay kimanus -lrb- kikus -rrb- gray do have anything in he hand . ' .
publish : wednesday , march 13 , 2013 , 12 : 38 be .
update : wednesday , march 13 , 2013 , 2 : 30 be .
a brooklyn woman who claim she have a '' bird '' s - eye view '' of the fatal police shooting of 16 - year - old kimanus -lrb- kikus -rrb- gray say the youth do not have a gun in he hand .
tishana king be the only civilian eyewitness to come forward , and she account sharply differ from police commissioner raymond kelly '' s assertion that gray have point a . 38 - caliber revolver at the cop before they open fire .
'' i '' m certain he didn '' t have anything in he hand , '' king tell the daily news .
moment after the saturday shooting , one cop put both hand on he head and say , '' ` oh , god ! '' '' king recall .
'' he partner go over to he and put he hand on he shoulder and say , ` be you okay , buddy ? '' '' .
king , 39 , a medical record clerk at king county hospital , say she give a tape - record interview to detective several hour after the shooting .
the detective be aware she 14 - year - old son dial 911 from they apartment after the gunfire .
but king , in she nearly eight - minute interview with nypd investigator at 3 a . m . on sunday , never say a word about whether gray be carry a gun .
king emphatically tell the news that gray didn '' t have a weapon in he hand .
but the newspaper '' s review of she nearly eight - minute interview with nypd investigator hour after the shooting show she never mention whether the teen be carry a gun .
'' i couldn '' t see what the kid be do , '' she say during the session .
the news review the tape of the q conduct in she apartment after the fatal shooting .
detective and internal affair bureau investigator never ask directly if king see gray with a gun , and a police source say nypd policy preclude ask such lead question .
'' they '' be just ask to say what happen in as much detail as they can remember , '' the source say .
a police spokesman say that when king be ask what she see by detective , she tell they she could see what the boy be do from the angle i be at . '' .
but king tell the news that , at first , the boy be under she window and that they move into view when police get out of they car and approach they .
the nypd have not release the name of the sergeant and cop who fire 11 shot .
a police source say the pair initially report to supervisor that the teen have pull a gun -- and a loaded weapon be recover at the scene .
king tell the news she be draw to she third - floor east flatbush window late saturday night by the sound of loud laughing and talk outside on e . 52nd st .
she say she watch as a burgundy - color sedan pull up and a man jump out of the passenger side , follow by the driver .
king initially think the duo intend to fight with the youth .
when the driver yell , '' don '' t move ! '' it click that they be cop , she say .
'' kimanus start back up , '' king say .
'' the cop take out he gun and start firing at kimanus . '' .
king say the area be illuminate by a streetlight and gray appear to be corner by the cop .
'' he -lrb- gray '' s -rrb- hand be down , '' she say .
'' i couldn '' t believe he let off -lrb- fire -rrb- he gun .
there be no reason .
no false move . '' .
a police source say king never tell detective that gray be back up with he hand down .
kelly say a '' earwitness '' hear a cop yell , '' what do you have in you hand ? '' but a source say the man be too far away to see the confrontation .
the shooting appear to be within nypd guideline , he add .
athen vigil end in violence .
violence reignite in athen follow vigil for the teenager kill by police a week ago .
greek rioter have attack a environment ministry building , shop and bank in athen on the eighth day of protest follow the killing of a teenager by police .
the clash late on saturday come after a evening candle-lit vigil to mark the shooting of 15-year-old alexandro grigoropoulo .
youth attack a police station with petrol bomb in central athen as well as at least three bank , several store and a government building , police say .
several hundred protester set up burn barricade and attack police with rock and flare .
the killing of grigoropoulo have spark the worst rioting greece have see in decade , with at least 70 people injure in city across the country .
hundred of store have be smash and loot , and more than 200 people have be arrest .
earlier , hundred of schoolchildren hold candle gather peacefully outside the parliament building in athen and at the site where grigoropoulo be shoot .
they leave candle spell out the name '' alex '' in front of a line of riot policeman .
banner in the main square outside parliament read : '' the state kill '' and '' down with the government of murderer '' .
'' the murder of alexis be the last straw .
be a young man in greece today be a crime ... .
they be steal we dream , '' say one leaflet distribute in the square .
the young protester promise to remain on the street until they concern , include opposition to the increasingly unpopular government and worry over economic issue , be address .
throughout most of the day , the capital have appear calmer than in the past week .
christmas shopper cautiously return to central athen earlier on saturday , but many store have board up they window instead of replace the glass , for fear of further violence .
much of the rioting have be blame on a anarchist fringe tap into resentment over political scandal and the impact of the global slowdown .
there '' be a lot of anger here : riot break out in brooklyn follow candlelight vigil for 16 - year - old shot by cop .
memorial for kimanus kikus gray , who be fatally wound by police saturday after allegedly point a gun in they direction , turn ugly as nearly 100 angry mourner clash with cop , toss bottle and create a melee .
publish : monday , march 11 , 2013 , 10 : 34 pm .
update : tuesday , march 12 , 2013 , 9 : 36 be .
anger over the death of a brooklyn teenager shot and kill by police fuel a riot on the street of east flatbush monday -- projectile be hurl at cop , car window be smash and a pharmacy customer have a bottle bash over he head .
the scene of violence on block near the nypd '' s 67th precinct stationhouse follow a protest march that grow out of a candlelight vigil for kimanus -lrb- kikus -rrb- gray , 16 , kill by police bullet on saturday .
in the aftermath of the riot , as police be try to secure the area and assess damage to store along street strew with broken glass , city councilman jumaane william call for police commissioner raymond kelly and mayor bloomberg to visit the community .
'' there '' be a lot of anger here , '' say william , whose district include the riot zone .
'' this isn '' t just from one particular shooting .
a whole community have not be hear for far too long . '' .
kelly visit the precinct stationhouse about 12 : 30 a . m . tuesday -- more than four hour after the chaos begin -- but do not speak to reporter .
the vigil for kimanus be hold at e . 52nd st . and tilden ave . , the location of the shooting , which have cause tension to simmer in the community , in part because the boy '' s family contest police allegation that he be arm with a handgun .
start at about 8 p . m . , nearly 100 people set off from the vigil site to march the more than 20 block to the precinct stationhouse , on snyder ave . near nostrand ave .
but the procession , peaceful at first , turn into a wild confrontation between furious marcher and cop after a faction break off from the group and begin to smash car and store window with rock and jump on the top of vehicle , police source and witness say .
'' i be sit in my living room , '' say mary john , 43 , who witness destruction near e . 31st st . and church ave .
'' people be stand up on vehicle .
i see they take garbage from the sidewalk and throw it onto the street .
i see someone take a tv and smash it into my neighbor '' s car .
they be throw rock at the car .
'' i say , ` oh my god !
what '' be go on here ? '' '' she continue .
'' they be call out , ` rest in peace , kiki . '' .
i be shock . '' .
abdoulaye barry , 24 , who work at african movie , at church ave . and e . 31st st . , describe how rioter try to storm the business .
he say he be outside , see rioter cause mayhem in the street , and rush back to urge he co - worker to lock the store '' s gate .
rioter rush the entrance , fight with worker as they struggle to lock the roll - down gate , he say .
the worker succeed -- barely .
but they lock themselves into the store from the inside .
firefighter later have to cut the gate to liberate they .
'' it be like the end of the world , '' barry tell the daily news .
'' that '' be the first time something like that have happen here . '' .
at a rite aid drug store on church ave . near albany ave . , which have about 60 people inside at the time , at least one rioter physically assault a customer -- crack he over the head with a glass bottle .
he be rush to king county hospital and list in stable condition later , a police spokeswoman say .
a manager of the store be also assault ; he refuse medical attention , the spokeswoman say .
there be unconfirmed report the store be loot ; the police spokeswoman say only that the cash register be not rob .
when cop finally manage to block the mob '' s progress , about a block from the 67th precinct stationhouse , rioter begin pitch glass bottle at police officer as they move in on the crowd , a police source say .
one person throw a garbage can at a cop , the source add .
'' they '' be act rowdy and call we racist , '' say a police officer at the scene .
as rioter flee into the night and protestor begin make they way back toward e . 52nd st . , william join the fray and try to prevent more violence .
'' the mayor and the -lsb- police -rsb- commissioner should be down here .
right now ! '' .
william , a critic of nypd policy , say before kelly appear on the scene .
'' there '' be a feeling that they don '' t really care .
they be lead and police for one portion of this city .
but they '' be not pay attention to the other part ; they '' be not listen to they . '' .
public advocate bill de blasio , a democratic candidate for mayor this year , also come to the area monday night .
'' i understand if young people be frustrated , but we have to help they understand the way to deal with it should be a peaceful way , '' he say .
'' they have every right to protest -- that '' be the american way . '' .
william say he be not surprise by the riot , only that it hadn '' t happen before .
critic of the nypd '' s controversial stop - and - frisk policy argue it lead to distrust of the police by the black community because its member be stop in such high number .
'' when something happen , we should be able to trust the police and what they say , '' william say .
'' police officer shoot black man , black man shoot black man , it '' be a problem that need to be deal with .
if they want to ignore it , it '' be just go to keep happen . '' .
follow the shooting death of kimanus on saturday , police official say he flash a gun at a pair of plainclothes cop who approach a stoop where he and other be hang out .
police say a load . 38 - caliber revolver be recover at the scene -- but family of the slay teen , who be hit multiple time by police bullet , vehemently deny that he be carry a weapon .
before the riot monday , a police source tell the news that investigator believe kimanus be a member of the blood street gang .
the source point to two youtube video , publish last year , that feature violence between blood and crip .
the source say kimanus appear in both video , which the news have refrain from publishing due to graphic content .
in one video , kimanus be clothe in a red adida hoodie and go by the nickname '' shapow , '' the source say .
he can be see taunt and hit a 13 - year - old rival on nostrand ave . near glenwood rd . in flatbush after the adversary flash gang sign and say he run with the crip .
kimanus also swipe a beaded necklace from the crip and then stomp on it , the video show , while he friend in the background identify themselves as blood .
the second video capture a apparent crips retaliation follow the smackdown .
a group of self - identify crip storm a mcdonald '' s on utica ave . and ave . h in flatbush after they spot kimanus and other alleged blood inside , accord to the video .
after a minute of heckling and heated exchange inside the mcdonald '' s , the crip retreat outside .
they mock kimanus for refuse to come out into the parking lot .
a sanctuary for dissent in greece ?
greek law keep police away from university , but some fear the immunity clause mean to protect free speech be now be use to harbor bastion of violence .
mask man wield club guard the entrance to the athen polytechnic university , keep watch over the graffiti-covered wall on campus .
nearby street be barricade with the carcass of burnt car , and a huge black banner proclaim '' murderer '' - the rally cry that have bring greece 's youth to the street .
inside , pile of empty gas canister testify to the score of molotov cocktail assemble there recently .
for more than a week , athenian street have be a battleground between police and protester , whose anger be spark by the fatal shooting of a 15-year-old boy by a policeman .
protect by greece 's constitution from police interference , the polytechnic have become the headquarters of the protest movement - and a haven for those wreak havoc on the city 's street .
as greek try to make sense of the chaos - and prepare for another week of protest , range from sit-in to nationwide roadblock - many here be begin to ask whether the asylum law be protect free speech or simply harbor criminal .
'' the university asylum be for the freedom of movement of idea , but not of commitment of criminal action , '' say george bergele , a professor at the polytechnic who be sympathetic to the student ' complaint , but not they harsh tactic .
'' the law about university asylum i believe be a fantastic achievement of the university movement , but we should protect it by not allow criminal offens to happen inside . '' .
the polytechnic hold historic importance for greek .
in november 1973 , student barricade themselves inside in rebellion against the country 's military junta , which have be in power since 1967 .
fearful that the revolt would spread , on nov. 17 the national police move in with tank , kill a still-disputed number of protester .
the junta fall less than a year later .
greece 's new constitution give special status to university and other school , forever bar the police from enter they grounds .
today , the poly-technic and other institution of learn be once again brim with revolutionary zeal .
across athen , high school and university be under occupation by student and other youth angry at the dec. 6 killing of alexandro grigoropoulo and also at a political system they see as corrupt and incompetent .
so far , prime minister costa karamanlis have reject call by opposition leader to hold early election , but he center-right party hold only a one-seat majority in parliament , and public support for he government be weak even before the riot .
the latest poll number show a 20 percent approval rating .
the polytechnic , which lie on the border of the edgy neighborhood of exarchia , where the 15-year-old be kill , be serve as the heart and brain center of the revolt .
there , anarchist - many of whom call exarchia they home - be help to organize student and other young people .
the area just outside its gate have be the site of some of the most intense clash with police .
inside , protester regroup and rearm around bonfire that burn through the night .
there be a air of menace outside the polytechnic .
but stergia sarantopoulou , a architecture student there who have be participate in protest , say the mood be angry but collegial .
like many student , she passionately defend the asylum law .
'' there be historical , political , ideological reason for the immunity to exist , '' she say .
'' university be we home .
it be the student home ; it be the teacher home . '' .
the university safe-haven policy might at time be abuse , ms. sarantopoulou say , but in the long run society be better off by have a law that forever ensure a safe place for free speech .
'' it be much more harmful for the state to control -lsb- university , -rsb- '' she say .
the explosion of rioting and looting that take place in the aftermath of alexandro 's death have fade in recent day , but there be still daily protest , many of which end in hail of rock and flaming molotov cocktail .
on saturday , the one-week anniversary of the shooting , the protest be largely peaceful , though still angry .
in daylight , a fragile normality begin to return to the city center , with shop again open and people return to work .
but at night , uncertain athenian stay away from the normally bustling city center , which be ghostly quiet .
group of young people roam the street across central athen , shout .
'' this night be for alexi ! '' .
a heavy cloud of tear gas and smoke hang over exarchia , which feel like a rebel-held enclave in a city at war .
police linger warily on its edge as young people set up burn barricade and attack government building and bank .
and clash erupt once again outside the polytechnic .
few here think the unrest will end anytime soon , and the rage of greece 's youth continue to smolder .
the death of alexandro 's have tap into anger about a range of broader complaint - about corruption , nepotism , a fail education system , and the poor economic prospects of young people , include unemployment rate in the 25 percent range .
protest be expect to continue throughout the week , with activist call for road to be block nationwide on tuesday .
they say they want to bring down greece 's whole political system - it be not just the current government that be see as tainted , most believe the main opposition be little better .
the protester , however , struggle to articulate exactly what they want in its place .
'' do not bend you head down , '' they chant as they confront police recently in front of parliament .
'' the only way be resistance . '' .
brooklyn neighborhood on police lockdown follow protest .
publish time : march 12 , 2013 02 : 03 .
edit time : march 13 , 2013 02 : 15 .
police intervene after more than 100 people join together for a candlelit vigil in the east flatbush neighborhood in brooklyn , new york , where 16 - year - old kimanus gray be shoot multiple time by police on saturday .
brooklynite on twitter report that police follow the march and search apartment building in the neighborhood without warrant , look for child who have be see throw bottle at police from neighborhood rooftop .
officer clothe in riot gear be see along the block , and barricade be place on the street .
march participant chant , nypd / kkk / how many kid will you kill today , '' witness report .
police say the crowd fall the 67th precinct station in east flatbush , where teenager who be not apparently a part of any organized group throw garbage and empty bottle at the window .
be in the middle of the riot action at church and snyder in my district .
right now , thing be tense , '' new york city councilman jumaane d . william , who represent the area , say on twitter .
william say people smash out window and overturn garbage can during the disorder , and that one person have be attack outside of a local rite aid .
'' tonight be a peaceful vigil that devolve into a riot , '' william write .
'' the youth in this community have no outlet for they anger , no community . '' .
one person be believe to have be arrest , and no injury be report .
sixteen - year - old kimanus gray be shoot and kill on saturday night after point a gun at two plainclothes officer who approach he , police say .
accord to the officer involve in the shooting , the teenager adjust he belt suspiciously , '' and after they exit they vehicle to investigate , he point a . 357 caliber revolver at they .
both officer fire a total of 11 shot at the suspect , hit gray multiple time in he torso and leg .
he sister , mahnefah gray , tell ny1 she doubt she brother be carry a gun , but be rather grab he belt '' to squeeze it '' because he have a '' skinny waist . '' .
they think he be grab back to get a gun , '' she say .
'' he 16 year old .
what be he point a gun at over six police , know that they would kill he ?
he have common sense . '' .
witness say that gray , who be run for he life when he be shoot , do not have a gun .
stay down , or we '' ll shoot you again , '' police say once gray have be hit , accord to the new york time .
the cop , they just jump out of the car so fast , '' the new york daily news quote witness devonte brown as say .
they start shoot he and he go down , he be bleed , hold he side , scream , stop , stop . '' .
but one woman , who identify herself as the slay teen '' s cousin , tell ny1 that kimanus be in fact hold the gun for a friend .
she also believe that kimanus be attempt to alert the police that he have the weapon rather than use it .
after the shooting , gray be rush to a hospital but be declare dead on arrival .
the officer involve in the shooting be also treat for trauma and tinnitus .
police say there be no evidence the unidentified officer act inappropriately , though they be put on administrative leave .
the also say that gray have previously be arrest four time on charge of grand larceny , possession of steal property and incite a riot .
greek government under fire .
a week of violence in greece have take its toll on the fragile conservative government , with opinion poll show many think authority mishandle the worst rioting in decade .
the shooting of a 15-year-old boy by police unleash a wave of unrest by thousand of student and anarchist across the country .
this come at a time where there be grow anger over political scandal and the impact of a global recession on greece 's economy .
while the violence have generally subside in the past few day , small group of hooded youngster be still hurl fire bomb , smash shop and fight run battle with riot police .
prime minister costa karamanlis have pledge to ensure security , rebuff call for early election .
a opinion poll publish by ethno newspaper on sunday say 83.3 percent of greek be unhappy with the government 's response to the violence .
'' i be tired of come to the shop every night to check the damages .
you think it be go to calm down and then it start again '' say anna pavlidou , manager of a central athen mobile phone store that have be repeatedly attack and loot .
'' the government should assume its responsibility and resign .
it do not handle it well .
if it have , we would not have 355 damage shop in athen .
i mean we will not be able to open until christmas '' she say .
a policeman charge with kill alexandro grigoropoulo have be jail along with a colleague pend trial , while more than 400 protester have be detain over the unrest .
anger in east flatbush persist over teenager '' s kill by the police .
publish : march 13 , 2013 .
first come the shooting : a armed teenager kill by police officer on a darkened brooklyn street .
then come the anger : a monday evening vigil mar by a unruly young mob thrash its way through local business ; a second protest the next night ; and another on wednesday night , after which , the police say , someone hit a officer in the face with a brick , another brick be throw through the window of a police van , and there be 46 arrest -- mostly for disorderly conduct .
two officer suffer minor injury .
by the time a autopsy of the 16 - year - old be release wednesday , the tension in east flatbush could be measure in the silently flash light of squad car park at tight interval along church avenue .
for some , the sight of extra police officer mean a potential reprieve in a area trouble by crime .
for other , it be anything but reassure .
the police say that two plainclothes officer fatally shoot the teenager , kimani gray , just before 11 : 30 p . m . on saturday after he brandish a revolver and point it at they .
the police commissioner , raymond w . kelly , say tuesday that the police have interview three witness , '' two of which say that the officer say , ` don '' t move . '' '' .
'' another witness say a officer say , ` freeze , '' '' he say .
the officer then fire 11 shot , the police say .
seven bullet hit mr . gray , include three that enter he body from the rear , accord to the new york city office of the chief medical examiner .
the autopsy do not establish the order in which the bullet strike mr . gray , or determine the path of the bullet , which might make clearer if mr . gray have he back to the officer when he be shoot , or if he have twist away after be strike from the front .
but the finding , inconclusive though they be , appear likely to heighten the tension of a community already distrustful of the police and increasingly incensed about the shooting of the teenager .
on wednesday night , about 200 people attend the vigil .
the gathering become unruly when about half of they splintered off and march to a nearby police precinct station house .
after officer in riot gear set up a roadblock on church avenue , mr . gray '' s sister mahnefah try to cross the street and be put into a police car .
she be give a summons and release .
some of the protester shout , '' that '' be the sister , '' then start throw bottle when the police would not release she .
someone hurl a chair .
scream could be hear as skirmish break out on side street .
for local resident , many of whom voice skepticism about the official account , the situation surround mr . gray '' s death be grimly familiar .
less than a year before , and only block away , a narcotic detective shot and kill a unarmed 23 - year - old woman , shantel davis , as she try to flee the police in a car that have be report steal at gunpoint , the police say at the time .
vigil follow that shooting as well .
but soon the rhythm of daily life return , mark by what young man and woman say be a daily backbeat of police stop .
'' you try to put it out of you mind , '' say m . davis '' s sister crystal .
in interview around east flatbush , many speak of a police department that , in its aggressive pursuit of gang and informal criminal crew , have sow distrust , especially among young man and woman , who feel that they encounter with officer often have racial overtone .
at a barbershop along church avenue , two man on tuesday be discuss the recent shooting when a asian delivery cyclist pull onto the sidewalk across the street .
'' see that guy ? '' say elverton thoma , 39 , a black man and telemarketer who be there for a haircut .
'' he can ride on the sidewalk .
we can '' t . '' .
he barber , julian clark , also black , concur .
two year before , he say , a officer stop he in front of the shop for sidewalk ride , and then arrest he after the officer say he identification have expire ; he spend a day in custody sort it out , he say .
'' they have a hard time because there '' be a lot of crime in the neighborhood , '' he say of the police .
'' but when they play hardball , they end up go after innocent people , too . '' .
the seemingly constant presence of the police in the life of many youth -- both on the street and , increasingly , monitor conversation on social media -- have leave many feeling suffocate , say shanduke mcphatter , 35 , a ex - gang member who work with young man in the neighborhood .
'' i understand the state of mind that these youth have , '' he say .
'' the problem be there be no relationship with the police . '' .
at the same time , he say , the situation on the street have grow more complex for law enforcement : gang be less organize , replace instead by informal crew with few requirement and in which leadership be frequently up for grab among increasingly young member .
'' the police say , ` look at these kid , they '' be wild , '' '' mr . mcphatter say .
'' and then they use that as a excuse to be wild themselves . '' .
the rev . terry lee , who run a local youth ministry and act as a liaison to the police , say many of the neighborhood shooting involve '' kid kill kid '' and lament that the community do not rise up more frequently in anger over those shooting .
but he say he understand why .
'' the community we '' be live in can get dangerous at time , '' he say .
'' people be afraid of retaliation . '' .
mr . lee say the local 67th precinct have grow more open to the community in recent year .
'' the problem be , people still don '' t want to go to the police , '' he say .
the autopsy report on mr . gray do not specify which of the seven bullet cause the death of the teenager ; that determination await further investigation .
one bullet enter he left shoulder in the rear ; two other bullet strike the back of he thigh , one in the left thigh and one in the right .
two bullet strike from the front , hit he right thigh ; one bullet enter he left side , strike he lower rib cage ; and the last bullet hit he leave lower forearm .
john c . cerar , the former commander for firearm train at the police department , say many factor could explain the wound to the front and back of mr . gray '' s body .
'' most of the time , it '' be the person make a turn , or the position of the officer , '' he say , or some combination of the two .
once that person have a gun , he say , the threat to the officer be imminent .
mr . gray '' s revolver be load with four bullet , the police say .
mr . kelly , the police commissioner , say tuesday that there be '' nothing to indicate that this shooting be outside the guideline . '' .
mr . cerar concur , say , '' under the report circumstance , it appear to be a good shooting . '' .
but raw feeling in the neighborhood fuel account at wide variance with that provide by the police .
some say mr . gray , while arm , do not point the gun ; other say they have hear that there have be no gun at all , or that he hand have be in the air .
a family friend , kevin black , 33 , say he be not surprise that the autopsy have find that mr . gray have be shoot so many time or hit from behind .
he say he have speak to mr . gray '' s parent .
'' the dad be shake , '' mr . black say , stand by a makeshift memorial for mr . gray .
'' he doesn '' t sleep .
he doesn '' t talk .
he '' s still in a dream . '' .
local elect official and clergy member , seek to lower the temperature in the neighborhood , mostly do not issue new statement wednesday .
'' we focus right now be to get the funeral service together , '' say gilford t . monrose , a local pastor and community leader who be work with the family on the service ; a date have yet to be set , he say .
on tuesday , police investigator could be see inside a rite aid store where , the night before , a group of at least three dozen mostly young people briefly rampage through the aisle , turn over display and assault one customer who try to intervene .
the police release store surveillance video and later announce the arrest of a 19 - year - old , say he be one of three who hit the customer and take he cellphone .
'' nothing justify that , '' mr . kelly say .
he say at a city council hearing on tuesday that the violence have be cause by a disorderly group that break away from the vigil and do not constitute a riot , as some have term it .
'' that belittle it , '' city councilman jumaane d . william say later , refer to the community anger after the police shooting .
'' so now we '' be go to wait for something worse , for something that meet the true definition of a riot ? '' .
greek government under fire over handling of riot .
a week of violence in greece have take its toll on the fragile conservative government , with opinion poll show on sunday that many think authority mishandle the worst rioting in decade .
the december 6 killing of a 15-year-old teenager by police unleash a wave of unrest by thousand of student and anarchist across the country , feed on grow anger over political scandal and the impact of a global recession on greece 's economy .
while the violence generally have subside in the past few day , small group of hooded youngster with fire bomb be still rampage at night in the capital , fight run battle with riot police and smash shop .
prime minister costa karamanlis have pledge to protect people and property , but he have draw widespread criticism for not act quickly and decisively to tackle the revolt .
a opinion poll publish by ethno newspaper on sunday say 83.3 percent of greek be unhappy with the government 's response to the violence .
discontent be high -- at 65.6 percent -- even among supporter of karamanlis ' new democracy party , which have a one-seat majority in parliament and already lag behind the socialist opposition before the riot .
another survey , in kathimerinus daily , put disapproval of the government at 68 percent with 60 percent of those poll say the riot be a social uprising rather than a outburst by a isolate fringe of violent protester .
more demonstration be plan for monday , include one outside the police headquarters in athen .
eight day of clash have cause 200 million euro -lrb- $ 265.3 million -rrb- of damage in athen alone .
the city be calm on sunday but broken shop window bear witness to the latest , sporadic riot overnight , when a few hundred youth wear gas mask attack a government building , four shop and two bank .
'' i be tired of come to the shop every night to check the damages .
you think it be go to calm down and then it start again , '' say anna pavlidou , manager of a central athen mobile phone store that have be repeatedly attack and loot .
'' the government should assume its responsibility and resign .
it do not handle it well .
if it have , we would not have 355 damage shop in athen .
i mean , we will not be able to open until christmas , '' she tell reuter .
'' someone have to understand the deeper reason for this -- poverty , high unemployment -- and solve it radically . '' .
the policeman charge with kill alexandro grigoropoulo have be jail along with a colleague pend trial , while more than 400 protester have be detain over the unrest .
in central athen , where even in calmer time barely a week go by without a demonstration , riot police with tearga canister have be man street corner at night , especially in the leftist exarchia neighborhood where the boy be shoot .
it sound like a war zone : chaos in brooklyn as 100 teenager riot on the street follow vigil of 16 - year - old who be shoot dead by nypd plainclothes cop .
two plainclothes nypd officer shoot and kill a 16 - year - old brooklyn resident after police say he point a gun at officer on saturday .
when police approach to speak with the young man , cop say he turn on they and aim a . 357 caliber revolver at they .
peaceful protest for kimanus gray turn chaotic tonight as 100 people riot and throw bottle at officer .
publish : 02 : 31 gmt , 12 march 2013 | update : 22 : 19 gmt , 12 march 2013 .
a orderly protest over the death of a armed 16 - year - old turn into a riot in brooklyn tonight after young people start lash out at nypd officer .
between 60 and 100 rioter gather around church and snyder ave . in east flatbush and throw bottle and other debris at police , witness say , follow a vigil for kimanus gray , 16 , who be shoot dead by two plainclothes officer over the weekend .
one person have be arrest , though no injury have be report .
they be lash out at the nypd , who they believe be responsible for the teen '' s death .
a nypd spokesperson confirm to mailonline that there be a ` large disorderly group throw bottle at police . '' .
they say the protest begin around 8 : 30pm tonight but the crowd be be disperse by police .
new york city councilman jumaane d . william , who represent the area of flatbush , have be tweet live update , and say : ` i '' m in the middle of the riot action at church and snyder in my district .
right now , thing be tense .
young people have express anger . '' .
mr william later describe the scene of chaos in flatbush , say that garbage can have be overturn and people smash out window .
he add that one person have be attack outside of a local rite aid .
` tonight be a peaceful vigil that devolve into a riot , '' he write .
` the youth in this community have no outlet for they anger , no community . '' .
another twitter user who be apparently at the site say that the riot sound like a war zone . ' .
a source tell the new york daily news that the protest begin some 20 block from where gray be fatally shoot .
the march go past the 67th presinct station , where officer impede the protest '' s progress .
that '' s when the peaceful protest get out of hand .
the unnamed nypd officer tell the daily news that they see teens jump on car and throw bottle at officer .
gray , 16 , be shoot eleven time after police say he pull out a . 357 revolver in east flatbush , brooklyn over the weekend .
police say they come across a group of young man on saturday evening and see gray act suspiciously , walk away from he friend when he see the officer approach .
officer say the 16 - year old begin to adjust he waistband and start to act suspiciously .
gray then turn around and point a . 357 caliber gun at they , accord to police account .
when the two plainclothes officer see the weapon they respond by open fire .
the teen be rush to king county hospital but he later die .
however , witness to the shooting say that the nypd account be wrong .
gray '' s older sister , mahnefah gray , 19 , tell the new york time that one of the witness of the shooting tell she that she brother be only fix he belt .
she add that she brother have too much ` common sense '' to point a loaded gun at a officer , and doubt that he be even carry a gun at all .
a woman who live across the street from the scene of the shooting tell the time that gray be call out : ` please don '' t let I die ! '' and say the officer yell back : ` stay down , or we '' ll shoot you again . '' .
grey live in nearby crown height , but have grow up in east flatbush and return there to visit friend .
he older brother , jamar , be kill in a car accident two year ago .
accord to witness , when the two cop arrive on the scene in a unmarked car , gray be part of a group of six teenager stand by the side of the road .
one of gray friend , devonte brown tell the new york post : as the cop open fire , he be scream , ` stop !
i '' m not run ! '' .
he friend have not explain exactly what cause the police officer to shoot .
police say gray gun be load with four bullet but have not yet determine whether the teenager fire he weapon .
gray have be in trouble with the law before , have be arrest three time since october and have previously be charge with grand larceny and incite a riot .
rioter in greece attack police station , bank .
rioting youth in the greek capital attack a police station , store and bank and fight run battle with police late saturday , authority say , as violent protest against a police kill continue for the seventh straight day .
the clash break out as candlelit vigil be be hold to mark a week since the police shooting of a 15-year-old boy , which trigger the riot that be threaten the stability of the government .
the clash break out as candlelit vigil be be hold to mark a week since the police shooting of a 15-year-old boy , which trigger the riot that be threaten the stability of the government .
youth - some on foot , other ride motorcycle - attack a police station with petrol bomb in central athen as well as at least three bank , several store and a government building , police say .
several hundred protester set up burn barricade and attack police with rock and flare riot police fire tear gas and chase the youth through part of the city .
the protester chant '' murderer out '' and use laser pointer to target police for attack .
violence have wrack greece every day since the death of teenager alexandro grigoropoulo .
the riot in city throughout the country have leave at least 70 people injure .
hundred of store have be smash and loot , and more than 200 people have be arrest .
while most of the protester have be peaceful , the tone of the demonstration have be set by a violent fringe .
and more young people have be willing to join those fringe element than in the past .
hundred of school child hold candle gather peacefully saturday outside parliament and at the site where teenager be shoot .
outside parliament , they leave candle spell out the name '' alex '' in front of a line of riot policeman .
the young protester promise to remain on the street until they concern - include opposition to increasingly unpopular government and worry over economic issue - be address .
'' speak as a anarchist , we want to create those social condition that will generate more uprising and to get more people out in the street to demand they rights , '' say 32-year-old protester pari kyriakide .
'' in the end , the violence that we use be minimal in comparison to the violence of the system use , like the bank , '' kyriakide say .
earlier saturday , a crowd of about 1,000 people attend a peaceful sit-down demonstration in athen and another 1,000 demonstrate in the northern city of thessaloniki .
one 16-year-old student at the athen demonstration , who give only she first name , veatriki , say young people she age feel they voice be be hear immediately when they smash a shop window or a car .
she also say young people want to see the policeman involve in the shooting punish and the police disarm .
the two officer involve in the boy 's shooting have be arrest .
one be charge with murder and the other as a accomplice .
the circumstance surround the shooting remain unclear .
giorgo kyrtso , publisher of the city press and free sunday newspaper , say the violent demonstration reveal widespread public discontent .
'' we be enter a long period of economic crisis , '' kyrtso say .
'' but there be also a deepen social crisis , combine with a weakened state .
we be truly at a crossroads . '' .
kyrtso , a conservative , be highly critical of the government 's handling of the protest .
'' this be the only government i remember that have manage to alienate both the rebellious youth and the law-and-order crowd , '' he say .
'' it have nothing to offer to anybody . '' .
christmas shopper cautiously return to central athen earlier saturday , but many store have board up they window instead of replace the glass , for fear of further violence .
athen mayor nikita kaklamanis greet shopper with the city 's brass band .
'' people come up to I and be tell I that it be the first time they have smile in day , '' the mayor say .
brooklyn vigil for slay teen kill by nypd snowball into full blow riot .
a candle light vigil turn violent monday night in east flatbush , brooklyn .
dozen gather to remember 16 - year - old kimanus gray .
nypd officer shoot and kill the teen late saturday night .
what start as a march , soon turn into a riot .
video post on youtube from occupybloomberg '' s ustream show angry people scream at the nypd .
accord to report from the scene , people vandalize property , loot and throw bottle at police .
the nypd say one person be arrest for disorderly conduct .
overnight and into early tuesday morning , police barricade snyder avenue in front of the 67th precinct in east flatbush .
police still wear helmet , guard the block .
'' tonight , we see a explosion of anger from the youth in my community .
we have talk about this anger for year , but still the resource have not come to address it , '' say brooklyn councilman jumaane william in a press release follow the riot .
'' we have talk about the corrosive relationship between we community and the nypd , but still the mayor and the commissioner have fail to address the root cause of this tension .
tonight , we see that tension turn in a destructive manner .
i can and will not condone the damage cause to property or to person . '' .
accord to police , kimanus gray have a . 38 caliber rohm '' s industry revolver and he allegedly point it at the plain clothes officer saturday night when they approach a group on east 52nd street in east flatbush .
the officer fire they weapon and the teenager be pronounced dead at king county hospital .
the gun be find at the scene , say the nypd .
ellen degenere to host oscar .
august 2 , 2013 | 08 : 06am pt .
talkshow host return for second oscar tour .
and the next host of the academy award be ... ellen degenere .
it will be degenere '' second tour of duty as oscar host , have previously emcee the 79th annual academy award in 2007 and earn a emmy nomination .
the popular syndicate talkshow host also front the emmy in 2001 and 2005 -lrb- co - host they in 2003 -rrb- .
'' i be so excited to be host the oscar for the second time , '' degenere say , joke that '' you know what they say -- the third time '' be the charm . '' .
'' we be thrill to have ellen degenere host the oscar , '' say zadan and meron jointly .
'' it be a honor to welcome back ellen degenere as the host of the biggest entertainment celebration of the year , '' say abc entertainment group prexy paul lee .
over the last eight year , the 2007 oscar host by degenere stand as the top rate in both adult 18 - 49 -lrb- 14 . 1 rating / 33 share -rrb- and woman 25 - 54 -lrb- 19 . 2 / 40 -rrb- .
even as oscar organizer on friday unveil hugh jackman as the host of they gala film award , the prospect of a u.s. actor strike be cast a long shadow over whether hollywood 's big show would go on as usual .
the academy award ' february 22 date put it directly in the path of a potential walkout by screen actor guild member who vote next month on whether to give union leader permission to call a strike in stalemate contract talk with major studio .
movie making by the big studio have wind down since late june in anticipation of labor strife , compound a general slowdown from the u.s. recession .
the tension have only be heighten by fatigue from a tumultuous 14-week hollywood writer strike that end in february and cost the lo angele area economy around $ 3 billion as production stop on most prime-time tv show .
'' a strike , if one occur , would be nothing short of horrible , '' say ron howard , the former actor and oscar-winning director of '' a beautiful mind '' whose latest film , '' frost/nixon , '' be consider a strong oscar contender .
'' the timing could not be worse , '' he say on thursday .
actor leonardo dicaprio , who on thursday earn a golden globe nomination for he work in '' revolutionary road , '' say strike concern be hit '' everyone . '' .
'' it be really important that we come up with a solution , '' he say .
'' these be unheard-of time , and no one can predict what be go to happen '' with the u.s. economy .
sag 's dark cloud .
the oscar , give out by the academy of motion picture art and science , be annually hollywood 's glitziest night .
put the show in jeopardy , however , be this week 's announcement by sag that strike authorization ballot will be mail to its 120,000 member on january 2 and tally on january 23 , a full month before the oscar .
that sequence of event raise the prospect of a-list star boycott the honor to avoid cross they own union 's picket line -- or even carry picket sign themselves .
the same dynamic come into play last january when a work stoppage by 10,500 writer guild of america member throw the award season into disarray and cause the star-filled golden globe award to be replace by a news conference .
only 5.8 million tv viewer tuned-in , far below the globe ' typical 20 million audience .
broadcaster nbc lose a estimate $ 10 million to $ 15 million in advertising revenue .
the writer strike be settle a month later , spare the academy award and its network , abc , a similar fate .
but this time around , the oscar be on the firing line and australian actor jackman , star of the '' x-men '' movie as well as broadway stage show , may himself have to pull out .
'' at this point , we be move forward with all of we plan to do we show , and of course we be monitor what be go on , '' say academy spokeswoman leslie unger .
sag leader say they need a credible strike threat to wrest a better contract deal from the studio than the '' final '' offer management present before talk collapse on june 30 .
they stress , however , that a '' yes '' vote do not automatically put a strike into effect , and it remain uncertain whether sag can muster the support it need -- 75 percent of those voting -- to pass its authorization .
talk collapse over issue that include how much actor would get pay for work on the internet , and the financial impact of a possible strike on hollywood remain unclear .
most film slate for release in 2009 already have be shoot , mean the 2010 slate would see the brunt of a strike .
some tv prime-time dramas and sitcom will have complete production before sag a work stoppage , though a walkout could hinder development of new series for fall 2009 .
8 / 2 / 13 at 1 : 30 pm .
5 thought on why the academy pick ellen degenere as oscar host .
have get a oscar host !
the academy of motion picture art and science announce this morning that ellen degenere would return to the academy award as emcee , mark she second host stint .
over the past few year , ampa have go to great length to pick a host who make some noise : whether it be the pairing of jame franco and anne hathaway in 2011 , the aborted choice of eddie murphy as host for the 2012 oscar , or seth macfarlane pick last year , the academy have seem hell - bent on find a host who might draw curious viewer -- particularly , the elusive young male demographic -- to the telecast .
world 's sexiest man ' hugh jackman have be rope in to host the 81st annual academy award ceremony .
accord to laurence mark , producer of the telecast , the australian actor have be select '' because we want the ceremony to be fun .
he can hold the screen and he can hold a stage .
it do not hurt that he look amazing in a tuxedo and he be the sexiest man alive , '' people quote he as say .
the ceremony will take place at the kodak theatre in lo angele on february 22 .
the x man star , who be know for he hard body , he have a softer side too .
jackman sing ballad at home , make pancake for son oscar , 8 , daughter ava , 3 , as well as he wife deborra-lee furness .
'' deb and my kid have be the best thing that have ever happen to I , without a doubt , '' he say .
ellen degenere to host 86th oscar .
friday august 2 , 2013 @ 8 : 13am pdt .
ellen degenere just tweet she will be host the oscar this year .
it will be she second stint in the job , after host the 2007 ceremony and earn a emmy nomination for it .
'' it '' be official : i '' m host the #oscars !
i '' d like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there go the orchestra '' , the comedian and talk show host say on she twitter feed just now .
the announcement of degenere as host come just a couple of day after the election of cheryl boone isaac , only the third woman to head the academy in its 86 - year history .
when she first host in 2007 it be note that degenere also become the first openly gay or lesbian host .
of course degenere , a double - digit emmy winner , be also nominate for a emmy for she oscar - host stint in the now - defunct category of outstanding individual performance in a variety or music program .
she also famously host the emmy in november 2001 after the show be cancel twice in the wake of the 9 / 11 tragedy .
she return to host the emmy in 2005 , just three week after hurricane katrina .
she also host the grammy in 1996 and 1997 .
here '' be the academy '' s official release .
television icon ellen degenere will return to host the oscar for a second time , producer craig zadan and neil meron announce today .
the academy award will be broadcast live on oscar sunday , march 2 , 2014 , on the abc television network .
'' we be thrill to have ellen degenere host the oscar , '' say zadan and meron .
she be beloved everywhere and we expect that the audience at the dolby theatre , and in home around the globe , will be as excite by this news as we be . '' .
'' i be so excited to be host the oscar for the second time .
you know what they say -- the third time '' be the charm , '' say degenere .
'' it be a honor to welcome back ellen degenere as the host of the biggest entertainment celebration of the year , '' say paul lee , president , abc entertainment group .
degenere host the 79th academy award in 2007 , for which she receive a primetime emmy nomination for '' outstanding individual performance in a variety or music program . '' .
it be a tough job host the academy award .
it be suppose to be entertaining , but it be also a night for the star to revel in the glory of a oscar win .
and the host have to be edgy and funny , without go over the line and insulting the honoree .
but when it work , as it do in 1992 when tough-guy actor jack palance do push-up in front of comedian and host billy crystal , only to become the butt of crystal 's joke for the rest of the night , it make for memorable moment .
on friday , the organization behind the academy award name australian actor hugh jackman as the host of february 's annual show .
jackman be the first non-comedian to single-handedly host the show in recent year .
the last time a australian host the show be in 1987 , when to '' crocodile dundee '' star paul hogan share the stage with actress goldie hawn and comedian chevy chase .
come off star in '' australia , '' which have have only limited box office success since its nov. 26 opening with a total box office take of $ 43 million , jackman will rely on song and dance instead of just joke to entertain a worldwide audience on oscar night .
he have do well host the tony award , the broadway version of the oscar , but the oscar ' audience be use to comedian on the show .
on a night where hype and pomp rule , the comedian 's role be often to keep the show ground by inject a jester 's dose of realism .
jackman 's naming as host prompt a '' love it or hate it '' reaction here on we news floor in lo angele .
there do not seem to be much in between , so we think we would leave it to reader to weigh in with they own thought .
hugh jackman : a oscar hit or miss ?
ellen degenere to host 2014 oscar .
august 2 , 2013 .
ellen degenere be so nice as a oscar host the first time , the academy have ask she to do it twice .
it official : be host the #oscars ! '' degenere tweet friday .
would like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there go the orchestra . '' .
will get to hear more of she quip when she lead the oscar ceremony next march .
degenere previously host the 79th oscar in 2007 , and snag a emmy nod for she work .
the daytime talk show host follow seth macfarlane , whose host of the 2013 academy award be divisive .
i be so excited to be host the oscar for the second time , '' degenere say in the academy announcement .
the producer of the academy award be count on a mutant wolverine who be people magazine 's reign sexiest man alive to inject some desperately need razzle-dazzle into they annual telecast .
hugh jackman , the australian actor know to film audience for play a furry comic-book hero in the x-men movie , will be host of the 81st incarnation of the oscar , the academy of motion picture art and science announce on friday .
abc will broadcast the award show on feb. 22 .
its producer say they hope to achieve multiple goal with the casting of mr. jackman .
first , there be a desire to put more movie in the annual movie business extravaganza .
jon stewart and ellen degenere , recent host , be both primarily know as television star .
laurence mark , a co-producer of the oscar telecast , with bill condon , say there be also a desire to steer clear of stand-up comedian .
'' we be try to get away from this late-night talk show rut , '' mr. mark say in a telephone interview .
'' it seem to we that we need to turn a corner and get somebody who be , imagine that , a movie star . '' .
mr. jackman 's selection be also a attempt to play to the audience at home , which have be shrink in recent year .
viewer of the ceremony be overwhelmingly female - the oscar be know in the advertising world as the super bowl for woman - and producer clearly expect mr. jackman to turn out that demographic in drove .
'' it certainly do not escape we that hugh look terrific in a tuxedo , '' mr. mark say .
with any luck , a host pluck from within the movie industry 's own rank - and less emphasis on stand-up comedy , which have often be at the expense of people sit in the audience - will also play well inside the kodak theater .
in recent year the crowd of movie insider have seem to respond to host with notable coldness .
a representative for mr. jackman say he be walk a red carpet in berlin on behalf of he current film , the epic '' australia , '' and be unavailable for a interview .
deadlinehollywooddaily.com first report he selection on the web .
mr. jackman , 40 , have never be nominate for a oscar but have artistic credibility , a important credential for the m.c. of the film award show .
he have win positive review for turn in film like '' the prestige '' and '' kate and leopold . '' .
he win a tony award in 2004 for he role in the musical '' the boy from oz . '' .
he also have experience as a award show m.c. , win a emmy in 2005 for he appearance as host of the tony .
he preside over that ceremony three time .
the oscar be a very different phenomenon from the tony .
the film honor be a awkward hybrid - a telecast about the movie set in a theater - that require they host to oscillate between jocular chitchat and solemn introduction , while sprinkling in just the right amount of self-deprecation .
serve as host of the three-hour live show require physical stamina and a ability to hold up under the emotional pressure of know that the television audience , while diminish in the united state , number several hundred million worldwide .
this year mr. jackman will have the add pressure of serve as the ringmaster of a lavish self-congratulation-a-thon at a time of global economic crisis .
prepare for the job may prove difficult , since producer will most likely need to draw up contingency plan in the event of a screen actor guild strike .
the union , at loggerheads with studio over contract issue big and small , say on wednesday that it would ask its member to authorize a strike .
the union , which will announce the result of the vote in late january , see its power to wreak havoc with the oscar as prime leverage .
the telecast have come under harsh criticism in recent year as a lumber snore that take itself too seriously and lack spontaneity .
star wattage have dim , with many member of the a list refuse to attend unless they be nominate or have a come film to promote .
a trend toward honor small , independent movie that most people have not see have dent viewership .
rating for last year 's oscar plunge to a record low , with about 32 million people tuning in , compare with 55.3 million a decade ago .
mr. condon and mr. mark , who recently serve as the creative team behind the movie '' dreamgirl , '' be try to energize the telecast partly by make the ceremony more of a party that celebrate movie in general , not just the elite few select by academy voter .
'' we be still at the preliminary conversation stage about what hugh want to do , but he theatrical talent certainly do give we reason to do at least one musical number , '' mr. mark say .
ellen degenere to host the oscar .
publish august 02 , 2013 .
ellen degenere will host the oscar for a second time next year , the academy announce friday .
we be thrill to have ellen degenere host the oscar , '' producer craig zadan and neil meron say in a statement .
degenere announce the news in a tweet : it official : be host the #oscars !
would like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there go the orchestra . '' .
i be so excited to be host the oscar for the second time .
you know what they say - the third time the charm , '' she add in a statement .
the television personality host the 79th academy award in 2007 , become only the second woman to host the ceremony solo , follow whoopus goldberg four stint in 1994 , 1996 , 1999 and 2002 .
he sing , dance , act on stage and screen , and he be the '' sexiest man alive . '' .
hugh jackman do everything but standup comedy - and that be why the first-time oscar host fulfil the academy 's promise to shake up the show in a way that be as tough to predict as the winner .
jackman be announce friday as the host of the 81st academy award , a marked departure from the academy 's standard of big-name comedian .
jon stewart , who host in 2008 and 2006 , and ellen degenere , the 2007 host , be the latest in a line of funny emcee since 1990 .
billy crystal do it eight time , whoopi goldberg take on four , steve martin do it twice and david letterman and chris rock each have a shot .
as the parade of a-list comedian continue , rating be in steady decline .
but with new producer , a new director , new set designer and even a new music director , the academy have be hint for month at a all-new look and feel for this year 's oscar telecast on feb. 22 .
have jackman host certainly fit with that theme .
producer laurence mark and bill condon call the australian actor '' a consummate entertainer and a internationally renowned movie star . '' .
'' he also have style , elegance and a sense of occasion , '' mark and condon say in a joint statement .
'' hugh be the ideal choice to host a celebration of the year 's movie - and to have fun do it . '' .
indeed , jackman can be a mutant superhero -lrb- wolverine from the '' x-men '' movie franchise -rrb- , a flirtatious singing barker -lrb- billy bigelow in rodger and hammerstein 's musical '' carousel '' -rrb- , a determine magician -lrb- '' the prestige '' -rrb- and a dancing penguin -lrb- '' happy foot '' -rrb- .
the 40-year-old actor play a roughhewn cattle driver opposite nicole kidman 's english aristocrat in the new baz luhrmann romantic adventure '' australia . '' .
jackman be abroad promote the film friday when he oscar role be announce .
'' thirty year ago when i be in sydney watch johnny carson host the oscar with my family , i never imagine that i would one day have the chance to be up on that stage myself , '' he say in a statement .
'' i be very grateful to the academy for give I this opportunity .
and , excite to be work with larry and bill on what i know will be a fun and memorable celebration . '' .
have a entertainer such as jackman host the show necessitate a change in the well-established standard of open the show with a joke , say steve pond , author of the 2005 book '' the big show : high time and dirty dealings backstage at the academy award . '' .
'' the tricky part be that while he be charming , he be not the kind of guy to go out there and deliver a comic monologue at the top of the show , '' pond say .
'' he be more comfortable with a song and dance , but be a song and dance at the top of the oscar what people want to see ?
it will be tricky adopt what he do best to what work at the oscar . '' .
but with rating drop for all award show , it be worth shake thing up to generate interest - and the academy award telecast , which post its lowest rating ever in february , be not the only one try something new .
the emmy add a category - best reality-show host - and divvy the show 's host duty among the five nominee .
the result be disastrous .
critic pan the format and the show be one of the least-watched emmy ever .
the grammy award spice up its nomination earlier this month by trade its typical staid press conference for a glitzy , live concert special .
ratings-wise , the hourlong show come in fourth among prime-time contender , behind such dramas as nbc 's '' life '' and abc 's '' private practice . '' .
bring in jackman to host the academy award be '' a stretch for the oscar , but at this stage , it be worth take the risk , '' pond say .
'' he certainly have what it take to do the gig if some change be make in what that gig require . '' .
jackman also have award-winning host experience .
he win a emmy in 2005 for host the 58th annual tony award in 2004 , when he also take a best-actor tony for he performance in the musical '' the boy from oz .
'' jackman have never be a oscar nominee , but be nominate for a golden globe for he role in 2001 's romantic film '' kate and leopold . '' .
he also serve as a past presenter on the oscar show .
jackman and he wife , deborra-lee furness , have they own oscar at home - they 8-year-old son , oscar maximillian .
the couple also have a 3-year-old daughter ava .
ellen degenere to host oscar .
8 : 13 be pdt 8 / 2 / 2013 .
she will make she second appearance as the show emcee on the march 2 broadcast .
ellen degenere will host this year oscar .
degenere herself announce the news friday morning on twitter , write , it official : be host the #oscars !
would like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there go the orchestra . '' .
choose degenere , know for she kindler , gentler humor , signal that the academy next award show will have a decidedly different tone than the 85th academy award , host by seth macfarlane , who draw criticism for routine like he song about actress nudity on film .
degenere previously host the show in 2007 and earn a primetime emmy nomination for she work .
i be so excited to be host the oscar for the second time .
you know what they say - - the third time the charm , '' degenere say in a statement .
zadan and meron add : we be thrill to have ellen degenere host the oscar . '' .
newly elect academy president boone isaac say , i agree with craig and neil immediately that ellen be the ideal host for this year show . '' .
meanwhile , abc entertainment group president paul lee say , it be a honor to welcome back ellen degenere as the host of the biggest entertainment celebration of the year . '' .
australian actor hugh jackman be name on friday as host of february 's oscar in a departure from the tradition of pick u.s. comedian on hollywood 's most prestigious night .
the academy of motion picture art and science , which hand out the world 's top film honor , say jackman , 40 , star of the romantic epic '' australia , '' will host the televise ceremony for the first time .
the actor , who also star in the three '' x-men '' movie and be a award-winning musical theater performer , have host broadway 's tony award three time and last month be name 2008 's '' sexiest man alive '' by people magazine .
'' hugh jackman be a consummate entertainer and a internationally renowned movie star , '' say laurence mark and bill condon , the new producer of the televise show .
'' he also have style , elegance and a sense of occasion .
hugh be the ideal choice to host a celebration of the year 's movie -- and to have fun do it , '' the pair say in a statement .
oscar nomination for the best movie and performance of 2008 will be announce in january .
the award will be hand out on february 22 by the academy at the kodak theater in hollywood and will be televise in the united state by the abc network .
jackman 's choice herald a new direction for the 81st oscar ceremony after recent year of fall tv rating .
typically , the program have be host by u.s. comedian , and in recent year , show organizer have experiment with a variety of host style range from political satirist jon stewart , to edgy chris rock and popular ellen degenere .
mark and condon have ax the famous opening monologue for the february 2009 show , hope for more spontaneity overall .
they say there may be a stronger element of music and dancing than previously .
'' we want it to be more of a party and a celebration and a departure from the late-night talk-show format , '' mark tell reuter .
mark and condon have a background in musical and work together on the 2006 film hit '' dreamgirl '' .
jackman , who can sing and dance , be '' genuinely thrill '' at the offer , mark say , but '' he want to make sure the format would mesh with he skill . '' .
the february 2008 three-hour plus broadcast , host for the second time by stewart , hit a low 32 million u.s. viewer and enter the record book as the least-watched oscar ever .
still , even a audience of that size make the telecast annually one of the most-watched u.s. tv show .
the broadcast also be televise live in more than 200 country worldwide .
mark say he and condon plan to get the telecast under three hour , yet still keep the live presentation of award and acceptance speech .
ellen degenere set as oscar host for 2014 academy award .
post : 08 / 02 / 2013 11 : 10 be edt .
ellen degenere will host the oscar .
the comedian and talk show host make the announcement via she twitter feed on friday .
degenere have experience host the academy award : she previously serve as emcee during the 2007 ceremony .
i be so excited to be host the oscar for the second time , '' degenere say in a press release announce the big news .
that degenere be choose as host should please critic who be unhappy with this year master of ceremony , seth macfarlane .
if only he will wear those gold lame pants .
as word get out friday that hugh jackman will be this year 's oscar host , a clip from the 2004 tony telecast of he performance from '' the boy from oz '' make the round .
if you happen to miss the 2004 tony , jackman , play the flamboyant australian songwriter peter allen , sing , dance and writhe he way across the stage in a leopard skin top and skin-tight gold lame pants .
will the oscar gift basket include smell salt ?
jackman , who have host the tony several time and win a emmy for do so in 2005 , certainly know how to hold a stage -- he win a tony for '' the boy from oz '' -- and by choose he , first-time oscar producer laurence mark and bill condon be bet that broadway can do what comedy could not .
previous host -- jon stewart , ellen degenere , chri rock -- all follow the traditional stand-up model and the rating have steadily sour .
obviously a change be require , and though i would lean toward think '' television '' rather than '' broadway '' -lrb- why , i even write a piece about it , for this come sunday 's calendar , before the host choice be announce -rrb- , jackman be , of course , another way to go .
clearly mark and condon be less concern with solve the rating crisis as they be with create a new vibe for the show .
jackman may have more talent in he little finger than most of we do in we entire body , but he do not have the fan base of degenere or rock .
if you be among the thousand who love he host of the tony , you be probably not only watch the oscar anyway , you be host you own annual oscar party .
yes , jackman be just name people 's sexiest man alive , and yes , he be wolverine of '' x-men '' but do we want wolverine host the oscar ?
probably not .
otherwise , jackman 's movie career have be less than memorable , cap by this year 's box office dud '' australia . '' .
and as last season 's mercifully short-lived '' viva laughlin '' prove , one talented person do not a television show make .
or at least not a good television show .
but mark and condon be the team that bring we '' dreamgirl , '' which actually make jackman a obvious choice .
there be nothing wrong with a big broadway-esque opener similar to billy crystal 's famous musical clip , but with more hip action .
beyond that , however , it get a little worrisome .
the oscar have a prickly relationship with singin ' and dancin ' and as anyone who see rosie o'donnell 's recent disaster know , nothing fail bigger than a fail variety show .
what jackman do have in he favor be a unapologetic , unabashed love for , and understanding of , theater .
he be not snarky and he be not a outsider .
he be a from-the-bottom-of-his-heart performer who seem utterly happy and at ease in front of a audience .
no doubt those in the kodak will enjoy a energetic and dazzling evening .
how it will play on television remain to be see .
but maybe it be time we stop care about that so much .
ellen degenere to host next year '' s oscar .
publish : august 2 , 2013 .
reach back to television for a comedy star , the producer of the academy award telecast announce friday that ellen degenere would return next year to host the annual oscar ceremony .
the producer , craig zadan and neil meron , cause some backlash last year after give the job to seth macfarlane , the creator of the '' family guy '' animated show on the fox network .
m . degenere have even less to do with the theatrical movie business than mr . macfarlane do -lrb- he movie '' ted '' precede he appearance -rrb- but she be well like in hollywood and she performance as the host of the show in 2007 be widely praise .
in typical fashion , she release a jokey response to the honor : '' i be so excited to be host the oscar for the second time .
you know what they say -- the third time '' be the charm . '' .
the academy of motion picture art and science announce friday that hugh jackman will be the host of the 81st annual oscar on feb. 22 at the kodak theatre .
the lanky australian , who be recently name people magazine 's sexiest man alive , be best know for play wolverine in the '' x-men '' franchise , include the upcome '' x-men origin : wolverine , '' and for he romantic adventure role in the current period drama '' australia '' and as a vampire hunter in '' van helse . '' .
not exactly the wild and crazy comedy type that have be host the oscar for the last 20 year , a list that include name such as billy crystal , david letterman , steve martin , whoopi goldberg , jon stewart and ellen degenere .
in addition to look great in a tux , the 40-year-old jackman have tv host experience .
he emcee both the 2004 and 2005 tony award , and win a emmy award for he first go at host that award show .
'' he be so sparkling and personable , and he deliver , '' say academy president sid gani .
'' i see he recently at a motion picture home event on the sony lot .
he be charming and pleasant .
the other thing be .
he love -lsb- be the host -rsb- .
he love the patter .
he like to wink he eye at a audience and have fun . '' .
while it be be more than two decade since a non-comedian be one of the academy award host , the jackman announcement be hardly unprecedented .
numerous actor , director and even producer have serve as master of ceremony .
dougla fairbank , laurence olivier , jame stewart , ingrid bergman , jane fonda , alan alda , claudette colbert , fredric march , agne moorhead , thelma ritter , fred astaire and charlton heston have all play host on oscar night .
'' we be sort of go back to the pre-bob hope day a little bit , '' say oscar producer laurence mark , explain that the decision to return to a actor as host be influence by a desire to change what he call the '' late-night talk-show '' feel of past program .
'' we want to take the show to another form , '' mark say .
'' hugh seem to be the perfect person .
the lovely thing about the show be it be a tv show set in a theater about the movie , so the fact that he be a movie star ... he be also a extraordinary stage presence and he do actually have a emmy award for host the tony .
he fit all three bill . '' .
'' thirty year ago when i be in sydney watch johnny carson host the oscar with my family , i never imagine that i would one day have the chance to be up on that stage myself , '' jackman say in a statement .
the academy be hope that jackman 's international appeal will help bring more viewer to the annual event that be telecast on abc .
rating for the oscar telecast have decline sharply in recent year , especially among young-adult audience .
the 2008 telecast deliver 32 million total viewer , a 24 % drop compare with the previous year 's ceremony , accord to figure from nielsen media research .
the most-watched academy award in recent year be in 1998 , when '' titanic '' win best picture .
a total of 55.3 million people tune in to watch who take home the golden statuette .
'' we hope -lsb- jackman 's -rsb- appeal be go to broaden we out , '' gani say .
'' we all know the rating be down , but we be go to have something pretty special . '' .
ellen degenere return to host the oscar .
post august 2nd , 2013 at 5 : 19 pm .
television icon ellen degenere will return to host the oscar for a second time , producer craig zadan and neil meron announce today .
'' we be thrill to have ellen degenere host the oscar , '' say zadan and meron .
'' i be so excited to be host the oscar for the second time .
you know what they say - the third time the charm , '' say degenere .
'' i agree with craig and neil immediately that ellen be the ideal host for this year '' s show , '' say cheryl boone isaac , academy president .
'' it be a honor to welcome back ellen degenere as the host of the biggest entertainment celebration of the year , '' say paul lee , president , abc entertainment group .
we very much look forward to have she back on abc for oscar sunday . '' .
degenere host the 79th academy award in 2007 , for which she receive a primetime emmy nomination for '' outstanding individual performance in a variety or music program . '' .
now that it be be confirm that hugh jackman will be host the 81st annual academy award , instantly up the annual ceremony 's overall attractiveness , the ampersand would like to offer some heartfelt advice to the first-time oscar host .
true , jackman hold he own just fine as the host of both the 2004 and 2005 tony award , earn a emmy for the former , but this be a whole new ballgame .
so without further ado , hugh , a list of do and n't when host the academy award .
do keep joke tight , snappy and to-the-point , a la jon stewart .
stewart pull off a television miracle last year when he host the 2007 oscar only 11 day after the wga writer 's strike end , mean that he joke and open speech be last-minute write .
this do not seem to dampen stewart 's usual comedic flair .
keep a constant string of quick -lrb- and often political -rrb- one-liner come at the audience , who have to keep on they toe so as not to miss anything , he make sure that the ceremony do not get bog down , keep thing lively .
my personal favourite quip .
'' oscar be 80 this year , which make he now automatically the front-runner for the republican nomination . '' .
a '' john mccain be so old '' joke be never in bad taste !
stewart also ooze confidence , despite lackluster review of he host job in 2006 .
do channel johnny carson .
carson be consider the epitome of the oscar host .
he host the ceremony five time and find that magical place where a joke be just bite enough , but do not sting .
'' i see some new face here , especially on the old one , '' he joke in one opening speech .
see ?
slightly scathing , but playful .
after all , the last thing you want to do be piss off you entire industry .
do allow yourself to get star-struck .
even the hollywood heavy-weight that host the oscar be allow to be overwhelm by the folk the statuette be be present to .
while obviously a part of she act , there be something very endearing about ellen degenere pause in she host spiel to snap a myspace picture of she and clint eastwood and let the audience know what a thrill the experience of host for they be .
nothing 's go to get the audience on you side like admit they they impress you .
do go big .
hollywood have never be about self-restraint or simplicity .
when celebrate the movie industry you have get to be lavish .
while jackman have a certain compose air about he and ooze class -lrb- have you see a picture of he in a tux ? -rrb- he could benefit from a spectacular entrance like whoopi goldberg 's in 1999 -lrb- she waltz on stage in full queen elizabeth get-up -rrb- .
it be hollywood : go big , baby .
do watch the time .
since the introduction of the play-off music that cut award recipient off when they get too long-winded -lrb- be there anything more embarrassing than watch a a-lister chase the microphone as its lower into the stage in order to get that last thank-you in ? -rrb- , the oscar have be trimmer in recent year .
but just as dangerous as the ceremony go over be it run short .
it happen in 1959 .
then host jerry lewis force that year 's winner to dance awkwardly around the stage in order to fill the last twenty minute of he broadcast .
mortify .
avoid at all cost .
do not appropriate .
it will always be funny when billy crystal relive the year 's greatest film -lrb- or rather , dodge certain death within they -rrb- in a intricate opening montage .
he be do it eight time already and it have yet to get old .
that be say , it be crystal 's thing .
jackman will have to come up with he own trademark host quirk .
might i suggest flashy , high-kicking song and dance number ?
do not do anything that david letterman do .
enough say .
do not be afraid to be abusive or controversial .
while no one ever want to see a repeat of michael moore 's rant in 2001 , it be the snippy , daring joke and comment that be remembered , like steve martin 's improvistation right after the aforementioned tirade .
comedian ellen degenere pick to host 2014 oscar .
fri aug 2 , 2013 6 : 50pm edt .
comedian ellen degenere will make she second appearance as a academy award host next year , organizer say on friday , in a move widely see as a less provocative choice for hollywood highest honor after a ribald performance by seth macfarlane .
degenere , the star of she own daytime talk show ellen , '' first host the oscar in 2007 , become only the second woman to fill that exalted role alone , after whoopus goldberg .
i be so excited to be host the oscar for the second time , '' degenere say in a statement .
you know what they say - the third time the charm . '' .
would like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there go the orchestra , '' the comedian add on twitter .
degenere , 55 , earn a emmy nomination for she performance in 2007 in which she depart from traditional oscar host decorum and venture into the audience for spot gag , at one point hand director martin scorsese a script of she own .
choose degenere , know for she kindler , gentler humor , signal that the academy next award show will have a decidedly different tone than the 85th academy award , '' trade magazine the hollywood reporter write .
degenere also earn praise for she performance as the host of tv emmy award in 2001 , which be twice delay because of the september 11 attack , memorably lighten the somber mood by ask , what would bug the taliban more than see a gay woman in a suit surround by jew ? '' .
the announcement of degenere as host also come on the heel of hollywood marketing executive cheryl boone isaac be elect as the first african american president of the 6 , 000 - member academy , which have make a effort to diversify its rank after come under fire for be too male , old and white .
trade publication variety see the choice of degenere as a continuation of the academy year of the woman , '' write that the oscar will put woman in the driver seat . '' .
and the legitimization of funnybook continue , as today the academy of motion picture art and science have announce that wolverine himself will be host the 81st academy award , prove once again that he be the best there be at what he do - even host a major award ceremony !
okay , so it be a bit of a stretch there , but regardless , today it be announce that one of we own , hugh jackman , will be the host of the ceremony , televise live on sunday , february 22 , 2009 , from the kodak theatre at hollywood and highland center on abc .
while it be certainly clear that jackman have come into he own as one of hollywood 's top lead man of both stage and screen , what we geek know he best as be wolverine from both the '' x-men '' series of film as well as next year 's '' x-men origin : wolverine . '' .
in a statement release today by the academy , producer have this to say about they choice of jackman as the telecast 's host , '' hugh jackman be a consummate entertainer and a internationally renowned movie star .
he also have style , elegance and a sense of occasion .
hugh be the ideal choice to host a celebration of the year 's movie - and to have fun do it . '' .
ellen degenere to host oscar in 2014 .
this will be second time host for the daytime talkshow star who will follow on from seth macfarlane savaged 2013 stint .
the comedian ellen degenere announce on friday that she be to return as host of the academy award , the second time she have be task with save the oscar a year after a poorly receive performer .
for the 2014 show , she follow a heavily criticise performance this year by the family guy creator seth macfarlane .
in 2007 , she put the oscar back on a even keel after poor review for the satirist jon stewart in 2006 .
i be so excited to be host the oscar for the second time .
you know what they say -- the third time the charm , '' degenere say in a statement .
she be a safe bet for the academy , follow a outraged reaction to the misogynistic joke that pepper macfarlane script .
while macfarlane performance generate high rating for the broadcast -- 40 . 3 million people watch , 2 higher than the year before -- he say he would not host the oscar again because of the negative response .
degenere however , have a history of well - receive host gig .
she be nominate for a primetime emmy for she performance as oscar host in 2007 .
she also garner positive response as a two - time emmy award host , carry the ceremony shortly after 9 / 11 and then after hurricane katrina .
she previous oscar gig , in which martin scorsese the depart take home the top prize , be watch by 39 . 9 million people .
degenere make the announcement on twitter on friday and say : it official : be host the #oscars !
would like to thank @theacademy , my wife portia and , oh dear , there go the orchestra . '' .
academy award producer craig zadan and neil meron say in a statement : we be thrill to have ellen degenere host the oscar . '' .
27 november , 2005 .
do the earth move for you ?
because it do down here at cell block g . dubai experience a slight tremor today , after a more serious earthquake in southern iran , result in the evacuation of emirate tower and a few other scraper .
witness in high - rise building say they feel the ground shake beneath they for about a minute .
many resident evacuate they building and wait on the street . '' .
expect endless earthquake expert in the papers tomorrow , such as the prophetic dr azm al homoud .
we should stop say the uae be not in a earthquake prone area .
i must say we be near major epicentre across the arabian gulf and fall within the collision area . '' .
inmate in the far southern gulag miss out on everything .
cut off by distance , traffic and general lethargy : the forget folk in the shadow of the jebel .
earthquake level village on iranian island of qeshm .
ten people be kill and about 50 hurt .
u . s . geological survey put the magnitude at 6 . 1 .
november 28 , 2005 .
ten people be kill and at least 50 injure when a earthquake raze mud - brick village on the persian gulf island of qeshm off iran southern coast sunday , official and state media say .
tehran seismologic center put the quake magnitude at 5 . 9 , but the u . s . geological survey in golden , colo . , say it be 6 . 1 .
a magnitude 6 quake can cause severe damage .
the temblor be feel across the gulf in oman and the unite arab emirate .
state - run tv report that the island airport sustain minor damage , and part of a hospital collapse .
no further detail on structural damage be provide .
state media say three strong aftershock be feel .
the earthquake be really strong , and people pour into the street in panic .
my husband immediately rush off to one of the stricken village , '' say sara sadequs , 22 , a homemaker in qeshm city .
state television quote the disaster center in the province of hormozgan as say 10 people be kill .
qeshm gov . heidar alishvandus say 50 be injure .
mohsen kazemus from iran red crescent relief agency say the four hardest - hit village be tonban , gavarzin , khaledin and gourian .
qeshm be the biggest island in the gulf and be a free - trade zone with a population of more than 100 , 000 .
it be famed for its palm forest , and its beach be much love by tourist and nesting sea turtle .
quake hit island off south iran , five hurt : media .
a 5.6 magnitude earthquake hit a island off iran 's southern coast on sunday , injure five people and damaging building , iranian media say .
the tremor strike a area around the town of dargahan on qeshm island , at the entrance to the gulf through which 40 percent of the world 's trade oil pass .
'' so far only the collapse of wall of house in the village of zainabieh and koohi have be report , '' qeshm governor mehdi irannejad tell isna news agency .
another news agency quote the governor as say five people have receive treatment after be injure by the quake , which strike seven km -lrb- 4 mile -rrb- east of dargahan .
the governor tell iranian media that 2,000 tent be ready in case they be need , and medical team with supplies and rescue equipment have be send to check village near dargahan .
iran , the world 's fourth-largest oil producer , be criss-cross by faultline and often experience earthquake .
a powerful quake with a magnitude of 6.1 strike southern iran in september near the port city of bandar abba , on the mainland near qeshm island , kill at least seven people and injure 40 , 15 of they on qeshm .
last update : monday , 28 november 2005 , 02 : 24 gmt .
ten dead in southern iran quake .
a powerful earthquake have hit southern iran , kill at least 10 people , injure dozen more and damaging several village , official say .
the 6 . 1 - magnitude quake strike qeshm island , home to 120 , 000 people , and the city of bandar abba , state media say .
on qeshm island , between half and two - third of home in five village have be damage , official say .
the quake , which strike at 1353 -lrb- 1023 gmt -rrb- , be feel in the neighbouring gulf state of oman and the uae .
iran sit in a volatile earthquake region and be regularly strike by damaging quake .
a 6 . 7 - strength quake kill more than 26 , 000 people in the ancient city of bam in december 2003 .
we panic .
the we geological survey put the epicentre of sunday quake at about 58km -lrb- 36 mile -rrb- south - west of bandar abba .
heydar alishbandus , governor of qeshm island , say five village have be badly hit , but the worst - affect area appear to be in the less - populated west .
helicopter ferry the injure to hospital but the authority say the rescue effort be now wind down .
mr alishbandus tell the afp news agency he be not expect the death toll to rise .
the bbc france harrison in tehran say in one incident a number of child suffer broken leg as they rush to evacuate they school .
the initial tremor last just over 10 seconds , she say , and there have be at least four aftershock of around 4 . 0 .
qeshm be a popular tourist destination in the mouth of the persian gulf .
it have a free trade zone and a commercial and fishing port as well as a sanctuary for the conservation of turtle .
the main town on qeshm still have power , water and electricity connection and official say they be send relief goods such as tent to those who have lose they home .
we be panic .
i see a injure person with blood on they clothes be take to a local hospital , '' one woman in qeshm tell afp .
there be report of people flee building in the larger city of bandar abba , a major port , but no indication of serious damage .
the surround area have not be hit by a quake in more than 25 year .
a 6 . 4 - magnitude quake hit the town of zarand in iran kerman province in february , kill hundred of people .
five wound by quake in southern iran .
a earthquake measure 5.6 on the richter scale jolt qeshm island off iran 's southern coast on sunday , follow by several aftershock on monday .
the tremor strike a area around the town of dargahan on qeshm island , at the entrance to the persian gulf , injure five people and damaging building .
the seismological network of the geophysics institute of tehran university register the quake at 17:06 hour local time -lrb- 13:36 gmt -rrb- .
the epicenter of the quake be located in a area 55.96 degree in longitude and 26.94 degree in latitude .
the quake have be follow by frequent aftershock vary from 2.8 to 3.8 degree on the richter scale on monday .
'' so far only the collapse of wall of house in the village of zainabieh and koohi have be report , '' qeshm governor mehdi irannejad say .
the governor also say that five people have receive treatment after be injure by the quake , which strike seven km -lrb- 4 mile -rrb- east of dargahan .
the governor say that 2,000 tent be ready in case they be need , and medical team with supplies and rescue equipment have be send to check village near dargahan .
resident in dubai and the northern emirate also feel the quake .
11 / 28 / 05 .
aftershock jolt iran qeshm island , death toll rise to 10 .
the sixth aftershock shake this southern iranian island in the persian gulf on monday as death toll from a strong earthquake a day before rise to 10 .
the new death toll come after the body of two more victim be find in the village of ziranag which be one of the 12 worst - hit village in the quake , qeshm governor heydar alishvandus say .
he say search be go on for several people who be report to be miss .
as many as 80 people be also wound .
alishvandus say some of the injure be transfer by helicopter to the provincial capital of bandar abba on the coast , include several who be in critical condition .
the governor state that as many as 2 , 000 people in rural region need accommodation , half of whom have be give temporary housing .
he cite tent , blanket , can food and drinking water as the most need item .
alishvandus say the first truck of public aid donation , include tent , blanket , can food and water tank be send to the affect region monday morning .
meanwhile , the head of the interior ministry natural disaster headquarters , abba jazayeri , say that the situation on the qeshm island be under control .
he say relief worker have complete the shipment of urgent need include foodstuff , tent and blanket to all affect village .
but resident at the village of gavarzin complain that relief operation be slow .
speak to irna , they say they have not receive aid almost a day after the quake .
house in the village of gavarzin have be destroy 100 percent and we have now no refuge to take , '' jassem chabok say , add all they furniture have be bury under rubble .
a series of aftershock have hit the island since it be first rock by a magnitude - 5 . 9 earthquake early sunday afternoon .
the seismological basis of tehran university register a quake measure 3 . 8 on the richter scale at 09 : 10 hour -lrb- 0440 gmt -rrb- on monday .
the earthquake knock down power in rural area , sink they into darkness .
local official be struggle monday to restore electricity .
flight from and into the international qeshm airport be resume monday morning .
the airport receive minor damage in the quake .
the tremor also damage hospital on the island , include one which be report to have stop provide medical service .
the worst hit village sustain between 40 and 80 percent damage .
a team of expert from the governorate of the hormuzgan province arrive in the affect area monday to assess damage to infrastructure .
the head of the team , alireza safa , estimate that between 50 and 70 percent of the industrial structure in the 12 worst - hit village might have be destroy .
qeshm , a 1 , 500 - square - kilometer island off the coast southwest of bandar abba and 1 , 500 kilometer south of tehran , have a population of more than 100 , 000 .
iranian be still haunt by harrowing image of the world worst disaster in december 2003 , in which more than 31 , 000 people be kill in the ancient city of bam .
the country be prone to earthquake and tremor of lower magnitude be usual occurrence .
a strong 5.6 magnitude earthquake jolt part of qeshm island in the gulf off iran 's southern hormozgan province at 17:06 pm -lrb- 1336 gmt -rrb- on sunday , state television report , cite by afp .
accord to the student isna news agency , the quake on the outskirts of dargahan , a small town on the island , injure two people .
'' two people from zinbi village be hurt but they general condition be satisfactory , '' qeshm governor mehdi irannejad be quote as say .
house in two village be also report damage , he add .
post 11 / 27 / 2005 7 : 21 be .
update 11 / 27 / 2005 3 : 41 pm .
strong earthquake jolt southern iran , feel in oman .
a earthquake measure at least magnitude - 5 . 9 shake a sparsely populated area of southern iran on sunday , flatten seven village and kill 10 people , official say .
the temblor be feel as far away as oman and the unite arab emirate .
heidar alishvandus , the governor of qeshm , be quote by state - run television as say rescue team be deploy to the affected area and people in the wreck village move quickly to safely .
another provincial official , ghasem karamus , tell the associated press that high casualty be not expect because the area be not heavily develop .
tehran seismologic center say the quake measure magnitude - 5 . 9 , but the u . s . geological survey in golden , colo . , say it be a magnitude - 6 . 1 temblor .
a magnitude - 6 . 0 quake can cause severe damage .
iran seismologic center say the epicenter be in the water of the persian gulf between the port city of bandar abba and qeshm island .
the usg say the quake be 35 mile southwest of bandar abba .
masoud dalman , head of hormozgan province emergency affair , say several building on qeshm island be damage .
the island , which have about 200 , 000 resident , be about 940 mile south of tehran , the capital .
shahram alamdarus , head of the rescue unit for the iranian red crescent , say two helicopter be evacuate injure from qeshm to bandar abba , a city of 500 , 000 people that also be jolt by the quake .
iranian television run video from qeshm show minor damages to some building and a few injure be take to hospital .
the report say the village of karavan and kousheh be worst hit , but no footage be show from those site .
the quake cut telephone link between qeshm island and the mainland , the report say .
in oman and the unite arab emirate , building be evacuate and people flee into the street .
power and water supplies be not affect , '' say alireza khorshidzadeh , a local journalist .
people pour into the street , fear aftershock . '' .
in dubai , one of the seven emirate of the uae , several building in the skyscraper - line central business district be evacuate .
they include the twin emirate tower , the highest building on the main street , where many international corporation and dubaus government institution have office .
it last around 30 seconds or so -- you could feel the building move and the coffee cup shake , '' say public relation executive bina mathew .
iran be located on a number of seismic fault line and , on average , experience at least one slight quake every day .
the last major quake to hit southern iran be in february , when a magnitude - 6 . 4 temblor rock zarand , a town of about 15 , 000 people in kerman province 602 mile southeast of tehran .
it kill 612 people and injure more than 1 , 400 , level several village and leave thousand of people homeless .
quake shake southern iran , damages residential building .
a earthquake with a magnitude of 5.6 on the richter scale shake the southern iranian island of qeshm and cause damage to residential building in village on sunday , isna news agency report .
several residential unit in the village kavouhus and zinabieh in the dargehan area be damage and two villager slightly injure , the governor of qeshm , mehdi iran-nejad , tell isna .
relief aid and medical team have already be dispatch to the quake site , the official say .
the same island be hit by a 6.1 quake in september .
that temblor kill at least six people , injure almost 50 and cause heavy damage to residential unit in september .
iran villager shelter in tent after killer quake .
nov 28 , 2005 .
iranian rescue worker hand out blanket , food and water monday to survivor of a powerful earthquake on a gulf island that kill 10 people and force villager to spend the night in tent .
power be restore to the afflict village on the gulf island of qeshm after a blackout cause by the quake , which strike on sunday with a force of about 6 . 0 on the richter scale .
we have distribute the need tent , blanket , fresh water and food to survivor , '' the governor - general of hormouzgan province , abdolreza sheikholeslamus , tell state television .
he say 30 of the 80 wound remain in hospital after the tremor , which destroy or damage a estimate 1 , 500 mudbrick house in about 15 village on the island and be feel across the gulf in the unite arab emirate .
most of the building in the village be not safe to live in any more .
however , by nightfall all those who need tent will be provide with one , '' the head of the provincial natural disaster service , massoud dalman , tell the television .
qeshm island governor heydar alishbandus tell afp that a total of 10 people have be kill and that the death toll be not expect to rise further .
around 1 , 000 people be house temporarily in tent and another 2 , 000 be wait to be house , '' he say , add that the weather be warm with temperature of about 28 degree celsius -lrb- 82 degree fahrenheit -rrb- .
we be not face shortage and the relief operation be go smoothly . '' .
some panic resident of the island , which be situate off the coast from the large port city of bandar abba and be home to about 100 , 000 people , sleep outside after a second quake jolt the area several hour later .
the rocky and barren island be hit almost two year after the southeastern city of bam - - situate 300 kilometer -lrb- 190 mile -rrb- to the north - - be destroy in a quake that kill ten of thousand of people .
state news agency irna quote the head of qeshm free - trade zone , ali rezapour , as say the quake cause damage estimate at around 54 million dollar , with 50 school and about 1 , 500 house render unsafe .
qeshm , located 1 , 150 kilometer -lrb- 700 mile -rrb- southeast of tehran , have a busy commercial and fishing port and be also a popular weekend sunshine getaway for iranian tourist .
airport chief ali naghavi be quote by irna as say that operation have resume after be halt on sunday .
the island main town , also call qeshm , be undamaged .
the most affected village be identify as gabardin , tonban , karvan , tourian and khaldin - - all situate in the less densely populated west of the island .
iran sit astride several major fault in the earth crust , and be prone to frequent earthquake .
in february , a quake measure 6 . 4 on the richter scale hit the southern town of zarand , kill 612 people and wound around 1 , 400 .
in december 2003 , the southeastern city of bam be raze by a 6 . 7 degree quake that leave more than 31 , 000 people dead .
mehdi zareh , the head of iran seismic research center , say there be no tsunami risk from the latest quake .
because the persian gulf be not very deep , a tsunami be not expect , '' he tell the student news agency isna .
iran 's state television say a magnitude-5 quake have injure three people in the persian gulf island of qeshm .
the report say the earthquake strike the island at 5:11 p.m. local time .
the u.s. geological survey put the quake 's strength at magnitude-5 .
monday 's earthquake be the second one to hit qeshm in the past 24 hour .
earlier on sunday a 5.6 quake jolt the island , some 930 mile south of the capital , tehran .
november 28th , 2005 , 09 : 11 gmt .
5 . 9 earthquake jolt iran .
a 5 . 9 magnitude earthquake have level seven village in iran southern area , kill 10 person and wound other 70 , iranian official be quote by ap as say .
accord to iran seismologic center , the epicenter of the earthquake be in the water of the persian gulf , between the port city of bandar abba and qeshm island .
qeshm governor , heidar alishvandus , tell the state television that rescue team have be deploy to the affect area and that the population from the village be now safe .
a reporter of the iranian news agency , irna , say that the only hospital in qeshm be full of people and that there be a shortage of medical facility .
accord to the same agency , the deyrestan village see serious destruction , while tonban and goursin be all but destroy .
the main temblor be follow by at least four major aftershock , with magnitude range from 3 . 6 to 4 . 3 , which increase the panic among villager .
qeshm , a 1 , 500 - square - kilometer island off the coast southwest of bandar abba and 1 , 500 kilometer south of tehran , have a population of more than 100 , 000 .
several die in south iran quake .
novemer 27 , 2005 .
a powerful earthquake have hit southern iran , destroy several village and kill at least three people and injure other , accord to report .
the 5 . 9 - magnitude quake strike qeshm island , home to 120 , 000 people , and the city of bandar abba , state media say .
the governor of qeshm island tell the afp news agency four village have be destroy and three people kill .
the quake , which strike at 1353 -lrb- 1023 gmt -rrb- , be feel in the neighbouring gulf state of oman and the uae .
post : nov 27 , 2005 8 : 20 be et last update : nov 27 , 2005 8 : 10 pm et .
a earthquake with a magnitude of at least 5 . 9 hit southern iran on sunday , kill at least 10 people and injure many other .
the quake be centre near qeshm island , home to 200 , 000 people , the u . s . geological survey say .
building be topple in the island capital , qeshm city , as well as in the the village of tonban , gavarzin and khaledi .
the main hospital on qeshm be have trouble keep up with the number of injure , iran official news agency irna say .
it full of wound , '' the agency report .
the quake also shake the major port city of bandar abba and be feel in nearby country .
in oman and the unite arab emirate , building be evacuate and people flee into the street .
a office worker in dubai say the tremor last 30 seconds and be strong enough to shake building along the skyscraper - line central business district .
on saturday , more than a dozen people be kill by a quake in eastern china .
it destroy thousand of building and leave nearly half a million homeless .
powerful quake in iran kill 10 ; 80 hurt and 7 village damage .
publish : november 28 , 2005 .
a powerful earthquake hit southern iran on sunday , cause major destruction in seven village and kill 10 people and injure 80 .
the tremor shake oman and the unite arab emirate as well , force many office worker to evacuate they building .
the official irna news agency and the united state geological survey say it have a magnitude of 5 . 9 .
iran seismologic center say the epicenter of the earthquake be in the water of the persian gulf , 35 mile southwest of the port of bandar abba .
iran be on seismic fault line .
a major earthquake kill more than 31 , 000 in city of bam in central iran in 2003 , and 600 be kill in the city of zarand in february in a earthquake with a magnitude of 6 . 4 .
the tourist island of qeshm on the persian gulf and seven of its village be most strongly affect by the quake .
it hit at 1 : 53 p . m . local time and be follow by at least four strong aftershock , irna report .
the news agency also report that one of the major hospital on the island , in the village of jeyhian , be destroy and the village power line be cut .
the island airport be also damage .
abdolreza sheikholeslamus , the governor of hormozgan province , the center of the damaged area , say 40 percent to 70 percent of the building in seven village be destroy , irna report .
two helicopter begin move the injure to the hospital in bandar abba , and aid worker begin distribute food , blanket and tent in the region , the governor say .
qeshm be iran largest island in the persian gulf , with a population of 120 , 000 .
the quake jolt several city in the unite arab emirate , across the persian gulf from iran .
office worker in dubai , unite arab emirate , evacuate several building in the city , pour onto the street and snarl traffic .
there be no report injury in dubai .
mehdi zareh , director of the seismological center in tehran , dismiss concern that the earthquake would cause tsunamis , irna report .
the persian gulf be not deep enough so that we can expect tsunami , '' he be quote as say .
map of iran highlight epicenter of earthquake : a tremor shake southern iran yesterday , cause major damage .
iranian earthquake tremor hit dubaus .
sunday , november 27 - 2005 at 16 : 12 .
tremor from a earthquake register 6 . 1 on the richter scale 60km south west of bandar abba in iran be feel in dubai today , prompt the evacuation of high - rise building on the sheikh zay road and in the dubai media city .
some eye witness report sense a definite tremor for one minute , although other tell ame info they have not feel anything .
uae authority be now say to be contact the we geological survey for detail of this seismic activity , which be already list on the usg website , www . earthquake . usg . gov , under the section for recent activity -lrb- see address below -rrb- .
the website report 65 response from dubaus .
the earth tremor hit a triangular area between ras al khaimah , al ain and dubai .
this follow warning from local uae academic that earthquake faultline in iran could have serious implication for build stability in the uae .
seismic risk .
scientist such as dr azm al - homoud from the american university of sharjah have be try to educate engineer , government and the construction industry about the risk .
today incident be bind to prompt a more serious interest in they work .
however , high - rise building in the uae all conform to international construction standard and be design to withstand the sort of minor tremor report today , although building be always thoroughly check after such event to ensure they integrity .
the dubai authority be expect to move swiftly to reassure resident that there have be no damage to person or property .
the emirate be not believe to have have such a tremor in live memory , and clearly some people have be shake .
such tremor be common in many major city of the world , but dubai resident have not feel they before and will be look for answer to the question of likely future seismic activity in the emirate .
but there appear no reason for alarm , as the earthquake be in iran .
man with murder in death at bloomington store .
a bloomington man have be charge with third-degree murder in a hit and run that kill a woman at the bloomington sam 's club store .
anthony phillip lasalle be also charge friday with three count of criminal vehicular homicide .
lasalle be expect to appear in court next monday .
police say 66-year-old luann marie johnson , of burnsville , be kill wednesday night when she be strike twice by lasalle 's car outside the store .
authority say the 36-year-old lasalle have a blood alcohol level of 0.41 % .
that be more than five time the legal limit .
police say they have to taser he to get he out of he car , and that he tell they he flee because he have drink a half-liter of vodka before drive to the store .
new york woman kill in hit - and - run crash .
on behalf of howard r . sander , esq . post in pedestrian accident on wednesday , september 18 , 2013 .
accord to investigator , a woman be kill by a hit - and - run driver in queen on the night of sept . 13 .
at approximately 7 p . m . , the woman be walk near the intersection of 117th street and 97th avenue in richmond hill .
she be walk among some park car when she be hit by a grey toyota camry that have be travel north on 117th street .
the driver flee the accident scene but be apprehend by police officer .
the driver be charge with dwi , leave the scene of a accident result in death , criminally negligent homicide and vehicular manslaughter .
a hit - and - run accident may be consider a example of extreme recklessness or carelessness on the part of a driver .
a personal injury attorney might review a hit - and - run accident case and suggest seek punitive damages .
in some instance , it be possible to collect damages that exceed compensation for lose wages , medical expense and funeral cost .
the intention be to punish reckless and negligent driver and also to send a message to other driver .
if the family wish to seek only compensation for accident - related expense , the attorney may negotiate for a settlement outside of court .
on the other hand , if the family decide to seek punitive damages , the attorney might request a jury trial in civil court .
if the at - fault driver be charge or convict in criminal court , it may help support the claim of recklessness .
the attorney may use police report , photo and evidence to build a convincing argument on behalf of the family .
if the judge and jury be persuade by the argument and evidence present , they may find in favor of the plaintiff and award punitive damages .
bloomington sam 's club hit-run driver 's alcohol level : .41 .
the suspect in the death at a sam 's club have a blood alcohol level more than five time the legal limit , accord to charge , and he admit he feel he car run over someone .
a man accuse of run down and kill a woman in front of a bloomington store have a blood-alcohol level that be more than five time the legal limit , accord to charge file friday .
anthony phillip lasalle , 36 , be charge with third-degree murder and three count of criminal vehicular homicide he blood-alcohol level be 0.41 percent , accord to the charge .
the legal limit in minnesota be 0.08 percent .
the charge say that he admit to drink a half-liter of vodka wednesday and that he say he flee because he have be drink .
luann marie johnson , 66 , of burnsville be strike as she walk into sam 's club at 200 w. american blvd. on wednesday night .
police say she be in a marked crosswalk about 7 p.m. when a vehicle knock she to the pavement .
the man drive momentarily stop , and a man believe to be johnson 's husband scream , '' no , no , no ! '' and try to prevent the car from drive off .
instead , lasalle gun the engine and drive over johnson , hit she and drag she 10 foot as he speed away , a witness say .
johnson die at hennepin county medical center in minneapolis .
the car then sideswipe a park vehicle before leave the parking lot and head west on american boulevard .
police stop lasalle , of bloomington , when he hit another vehicle two block away at the intersection of american boulevard and lyndale avenue .
accord to the charge , police stop lasalle 's vehicle and try to make contact , but lasalle refuse to comply , say officer '' would need to kill '' he .
officer use a taser to subdue he , say sgt. marty earley .
lasalle be take to fairview southdale hospital in edina to treat a cut on he head and to take a blood sample to measure he alcohol content , the charge say .
driver charge in fatal queen hit & run .
a driver have be charge with dwi and criminally negligent homicide after police say he strike and kill a woman in queen last night .
accord to a nypd release , 59 - year - old raj chohan be walk along park car on 117th street near 97th avenue at around 7 p . m . last night when 23 - year - old vishwanand subryan strike chohan with he 2013 toyota camry as he be travel north .
subryan flee the scene , but be arrest nearby .
chohan be pronounced dead at jamaica hospital .
subryan be also charge with vehicular manslaughter , and leave the scene of a accident result in death .
'' they drive reckless around here , '' a bystander tell cb .
always reckless . '' .
woman strike , kill in bloomington .
authority have release the name of a 66-year-old woman who be walk outside the sam 's club in bloomington when she be strike and kill by a motorist .
police identify the victim on thursday as luann marie johnson of burnsville .
johnson be walk in a crosswalk outside the store when she be strike around 7 p.m. wednesday .
police say a man outside the sam 's club tell the 36-year-old driver to stop but he keep go .
police pull he over a few block away and say they have to taser he to get he out of the car .
the woman be pronounced dead at hcmc .
grandmother kill by drunk driver in hit - and - run accident in richmond hill , queen da saysseptember 19 , 2013 .
a 59 - year - old grandmother on she way to a religious service in richmond hill last friday be hit and kill by a allegedly drunk driver who flee the scene of the accident that leave she family and friend devastate , queen district attorney richard brown say .
raj chohan , who live in south ozone park , be walk towards a sikh temple for a friday evening service when vishwanand subryan , 23 , of schenectady , n . y . , allegedly mow into the older woman with he gray 2013 toyota camry around 7 p . m . , police say .
emergency worker rush to she side and bring she to jamaica hospital medical center , where chohan -- a immigrant from india who leave behind a husband , son and two grandchild -- die later that night , police say .
subryan have be charge with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , drive while under the influence of alcohol , and leave the scene of a accident without report it , the da say .
'' drinking and driving be a deadly combination -- one that have the potential of turn a vehicle into a lethal weapon , '' brown say in a prepared statement .
'' in this case , the defendant be accuse of get behind the wheel while under the influence of alcohol , be unable to maintain proper control of he vehicle , and strike a pedestrian before speed away without check to see if she need medical assistance . '' .
arraign on sept . 15 , subryan be order hold on 200 , 000 bail and be expect to return to queen supreme court in kew garden on oct . 2 .
accord to the criminal charge , two police officer from the 102nd precinct be station on 117th street at approximately 7 p . m . on friday night , when they hear a loud bang behind they and one of the officer see fluorescent garment fly in the air .
when the officer turn around , they allegedly see subryan speed past they .
he then allegedly run a stop sign and red light when police begin to pursue he , the da say .
when cop stop the car , police allegedly observe subryan to have bloodshot watery eye and slur speech and smell of alcohol , accord to brown .
additionally , he be allegedly sway and unsteady on he foot when he get out of he car -- which police write have a dented hood , a crack bumper and front headlight , and scuff mark on the hood , the nypd say .
the driver be take to the 112th precinct , where police document that he allegedly have a blood alcohol content of . 09 percent -- above new york '' s legal limit of . 08 percent .
a civilian witness at the scene also tell police that they see a car speed by and then see chohan , who be wear bright yellow clothing and go into cardiac arrest , lay in the street , the da say .
video surveillance from the area show the vehicle striking chohan , cause she to become airborne , accord to brown .
the tragic event be one of three accident involve pedestrian in the city last weekend .
a female pedestrian be strike and kill by a motorist when she be cross queen plaza north near 27th street a little before 10 p . m . on friday , accord to police .
the unidentified woman be pronounced dead at mount sinai hospital .
maria dulce - valencia , 27 , be also kill in a hit - and - run accident , police say .
she be hit around 5 a . m . sunday morning at bruckner boulevard and evergreen avenue in the bronx '' s soundview neighborhood .
man charge with dwi , leave scene after s . rich hill mother kill in crash : nypd .
a 59 - year - old woman be kill in a hit - and - run crash while visit a former neighbor to welcome he new daughter - in - law to the family friday evening , and the man allegedly behind the wheel of the car that hit she be charge with drive drunk , police and the woman '' s friend say .
raj k . chohan be walk alongside park car on 117th street and 97th avenue at about 7 p . m . when she be strike by a gray 2013 toyota camry , which then speed off , accord to cop .
'' the husband and wife come to visit , '' say south richmond hill resident suri charanjit .
'' he be with she when it happen . '' .
charanjit say he and he family come out of they home on 117th street and see a crowd of people gather and em perform cpr on chohan .
emergency responder be call in and take chohan to jamaica hospital , where she be later pronounced dead , the nypd say .
resident along 117th street say a police cruiser happen to be pull over on the side of the road near where the crash occur , and immediately chase the vehicle .
police say the officer catch up with 23 - year - old vishwanand subryan of schenectady a few block away - at 115th street and 101st avenue - where he be take into custody without incident .
subryan be charge with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , leave the scene of a accident result in death and dwi , the nypd say .
chohan , who be a mother to a married son and daughter , have be in she former neighborhood to visit piara singh , accord to charanjit who translate for singh .
she have move about a mile and a half away five or six year ago , she friend say .
as part of a sikh tradition , she have be visit to greet singh '' s daughter - in - law , who recently arrive from india , and present she with gift , he explain .
chohan have call singh '' s house to let the family know she be outside and ask that someone open the door .
'' when -lsb- singh '' s -rsb- son come out , he see she on the floor , '' charanjit say .
both charanjit and singh complain car speed along 117th street .
'' the car come straight from 103rd avenue .
they have no stop sign , no bump , nothing but green until 95th avenue , '' charanjit say .
'' this be just a side street .
we want to have a stop sign . '' .
schenectady man charge in fatal queen crash .
publish 12 : 17 am , monday , september 16 , 2013 .
a schenectady man have be charge in a fatal hit - and - run crash that kill a woman in queen friday night , new york police say .
vishwanand subryan , 23 , be charge with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , leave the scene of a accident and drive while intoxicate , police say .
subryan allegedly strike raj chohan , a 59 - year - old grandmother , as she walk along park car on 117th street in queen when the car strike she and flee the scene .
chohan be unconscious and unresponsive when officer and em arrive , police say .
she be take to jamaica hospital , where she be pronounced dead , police say .
subryan be arrest without incident shortly after the crash , police say .
police arrest suspect in fatal bloomington hit and run .
the driver allegedly hit a 66-year-old woman near a bloomington parking lot and flee the scene .
police say alcohol be a factor .
a woman hit and kill by a motorist wednesday night outside a sam 's club store in bloomington might be alive if the driver have listen to bystander who frantically plead with he to stop .
luann marie johnson , 66 , of burnsville , be walk into the store at 200 w. american blvd. with she husband when she be strike just after 7 p.m. , say sgt. marty earley .
she be in a marked crosswalk when the car hit she .
the impact knock johnson to the ground .
as she lay in front of the motorist 's vehicle , a man standing next to she scream , '' no , no , no ! '' and try to get the driver to stay put .
instead , the driver gun the engine and drive over johnson , hit she and drag she 10 foot as he speed away , say witness angela benson , who have just exit the store with she two young son and be 20 foot away .
'' it be horrible to see , '' say benson , a managing editor at wcco-tv , ch 4 .
'' he take off like a bullet .
people be just scream . '' .
johnson be take to hennepin county medical center in minneapolis , where she die .
after hit she , the suspect sideswipe a park vehicle before leave the parking lot and head west on american boulevard .
police stop anthony phillip lasalle , 36 , of bloomington , when he hit another vehicle at the intersection of american boulevard and lyndale avenue .
they use a taser to subdue he .
lasalle be arrest and book into the bloomington city jail , earley say .
he be now be hold in the hennepin county jail on probable cause for criminal vehicular operation .
police be still gather statement from several witness thursday morning , but '' we do know alcohol be a factor , '' earley say .
lasalle be expect to be charge today , earley say .
woman kill in queen hit - and - run , driver charge .
update 09 / 14 / 2013 01 : 03 pm .
a woman have die after be hit by a car that flee the scene in queen , and now , the driver be face manslaughter charge .
witness say 59 - year - old raj chohan be leave she car on 117th street in south richmond hill friday when she be hit by a silver toyota camry and send fly into the air .
she die at the hospital .
police catch up with the driver , who be from schnectady , a few block away .
he have be charge with vehicular manslaughter , negligent homicide and flee the scene of a accident .
hit and run outside bloomington sam 's club leave woman dead .
a woman die wednesday night after be strike by a hit-and-run driver outside a store in bloomington , accord to a report from wcco-tv channel 4 .
the woman be walk in a crosswalk outside the sam 's club at 200 w. american blvd. around 7 p.m. when she be hit , the station report .
a bystander try to stop the driver , but he drive off .
police pull the 36-year-old driver over a few block away , the station report .
the victim , who be in she 60 , be take to hennepin county medical center in minneapolis , where she be pronounced dead , accord to the report .
the station also report that when the driver be arrest , he be uncooperative and officer have to use a taser to subdue he .
police believe the driver be drink at the time of the crash , wcco-tv report .
queen hit and run leaf woman dead .
saturday , september 14 , 2013 .
police have a suspect in custody after a hit and run accident that kill a woman in queen friday night .
investigator say 59 - year old raj chohan be hit while walk along park car at 97th avenue and 117th street in richmond hill at about 7 p . m .
police say she be strike by a grey toyota camry head north on 117th street , which then flee the scene .
they later apprehend the suspect , identify as 23 - year old vishwanand subryan of schenectady , new york .
he have be charge with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , leave the scene of a accident result in death , and dwi .
eyewitness news have learn from people in the neighborhood that the victim be originally from punjab , india .
she be in the neighborhood visit someone .
she do live on the block .
eyewitness news speak to one man who say he call 911 after he hear a crash .
i see a person lie down .
this be a mom , a female , and then i dialed 911 , '' say mahadeo rambrich , a witness .
what do the person look like when you see she lie on the ground ? '' eyewitness news ask .
not respond .
she be unconscious , '' rambrich say .
this neighborhood be mostly make up of indian and guyanese family , and resident describe it as peaceful and quiet .
there a temple there .
but friday night , everyone be shake up by what happen .
charge file in parking lot drunken hit-and-run .
the hennepin county attorney file criminal charge friday against the man who they say hit and kill a woman walk out of a store .
anthony phillip lasalle be now in jail for that crime .
bloomington police say he drink so much he blood-alcohol level be 0.41 , more than five time the legal limit .
lasalle face serious charge , include murder and vehicular homicide .
both of they be felony .
the criminal complaint in this case give detail about exactly what happen wednesday night .
lasalle drink 1/2 liter of vodka before he drive to the sam 's club in bloomington and park he car .
as he be leave the lot , he accelerate rapidly , and feel he front and rear left side tire drive over someone .
luann marie johnson be hit at such a high rate of speed that she foot come out from under she and she hit she head on the pavement as she fall .
the car drag she 10 foot .
johnson and she husband be walk out of the store about 7 p.m .
they be in the crosswalk when the car come speeding toward they .
michael gallagher happen to be right there , too .
'' we heart and prayer be with the man who lose he wife who die , '' say gallagher , who throw down he salvation army bell and run to johnson and she husband to help .
'' he be pretty shake up .
he try to provide first aid for and try to provide comfort for she , '' say sgt. marty earley with the bloomington police department , as he describe gallagher 's action .
minute later , bloomington police see the car lasalle be drive .
they try to contact lasalle , but they say he be uncooperative and refuse to get out of he vehicle , say that officer would need to kill he .
those police officer have to use a taser to get he out of he car .
they say he smell like alcohol and have glassy eye .
bloomington police officer give johnson first aid and question people who see the hit-and-run .
johnson suffer a head trauma and she injury be severe .
she die a hour later at hennepin county medical center .
queen grandmother kill by a drunk hit - and - run driver .
raj chohan , 59 , be kill by a drunk hit - and - run driver as she be on she way to attend religious service on friday .
saturday , september 14 , 2013 , 9 : 29 pm .
a grandmother cross a queen street to attend a religious service friday be mow down by a drunken hit - and - run driver , cop and family say .
raj chohan , 59 , have just park she car and be walk alongside other park vehicle toward a sikh temple when she be strike by a gray 2013 toyota camry head north on 117th st . near 97th ave . about 7 p . m . , police say .
chohan , who live half a mile away in south ozone park , be rush to jamaica hospital , where she later die .
'' we be really just shock , '' say she nephew , ravi singh , 32 , of coney island .
'' she be so nice .
she always take care of everybody . '' .
a cop patrolling on foot happen to see the flee vehicle and alert other officer , who pull the heartless driver over at 115th st . and 101st ave .
vishwanand subryan , 23 , of schenectady , n . y . , be charge with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , drive drunk and leave the scene of a fatal accident .
'' he should be punish , in jail , for the rest of he life , '' singh say .
'' we be a very close family . '' .
chohan , a indian immigrant , live with she husband , son and two grandkid .
'' the grandkid be she whole life and joy , '' a family friend say .
'' she be a very care person . '' .
man charge in deadly hit and run outside sam 's club .
a man have be charge in a hit and run accident that kill a 66-year-old burnsville woman .
anthony phillip lasalle of bloomington be charge on friday with third degree murder and three count of criminal vehicular homicide .
lasalle be expect to appear in court next monday .
luann marie johnson , 66 , of burnsville be kill wednesday night when lasalle strike and kill she as she be walk outside a sam 's club in bloomington .
lasalle , 36 , have a blood alcohol level of 0.41 percent .
that be more than five time the legal limit .
police say a man outside the sam 's club tell lasalle to stop but he keep go .
police pull lasalle over a few block away and say they have to taser he to get he out of the car .
cop : queen woman kill in hit - and - run .
driver charge with dwi , vehicular manslaughter .
september 14 , 2013 10 : 46 be .
a 59 - year - old mother of two die when a drunken driver strike she with he car and then drive off , police say .
raj chohan , 59 , of queen , have just park she car around 7 p . m . friday at 97th avenue and 117th street in richmond hill when she be hit by a 2013 toyota camry , which then flee , police tell 1010 win '' glenn schuck .
a police officer that be park nearby and witness the incident chase after the car and arrest vishwanand subryan , 23 , of schenectady , several block away .
subryan be charge with dwi , vehicular manslaughter and leave the scene of a accident result in death .
chohan be pronounced dead at jamaica hospital .
several neighbor run outside to try to help the woman .
'' oh man , she be bad , '' one man tell schuck .
'' there be nothing we could do .
everybody be just stand there all confuse , like they can '' t believe that this happen over here .
she be out cold . '' .
'' my wife be get ready to go out with the kid , and she scream that somebody hit another car and run away , '' another neighbor say .
'' when i go to check , i see the lady lie on the floor , but she wasn '' t breathing or anything . '' .
man charge in fatal bloomington hit and run .
the man police say be behind a fatal hit and run outside a sam 's club store in bloomington , now face a murder charge .
the hennepin county attorney 's office hand down charge to anthony phillip lasalle friday , which include one count of third-degree murder and three count of criminal vehicular homicide .
police say 66-year-old luann marie johnson , of burnsville , be with she husband when she be strike in the crosswalk outside the store , located at 200 west american boulevard , around 7 p.m. wednesday .
paramedic rush johnson to hennepin county medical center where she die .
'' kind , gentle , christian , love the lord , and she be better off where she be now , '' say lois scholz , a friend of luann 's .
scholz live across the hall from luann and she husband leroy .
'' leroy be bless and he be comfortable with this , '' scholz say .
'' i talk with he and he be very at peace with the idea that she be with the lord . '' .
after a struggle , officer be able to apprehend the bloomington man a few block away from the scene , by use a taser .
during he flee , lasalle strike two other vehicle , but no one be injure , accord to authority .
accord to the criminal complaint , lasalle be transport to fairview southdale hospital to be treat for he injure he sustain during he apprehension .
he also have blood draw , which be test , and result in show he blood-alcohol level be .41 .
lasalle tell police he have drink a half-liter of vodka before drive to sam 's club .
he also admit that he know he have hit someone and be require to stop .
however , he tell official that because he be drunk , it affect he decision to leave the scene .
state record show lasalle have three prior dui conviction , span from 1990 to 1991 .
he also have two motor vehicle theft conviction .
lasalle be in custody .
if convict , he face up to 55 year in prison , a $ 60,000 fine , or both .
woman kill in queen hit - and - run , police arrest allegedly drunk driver .
on september 14 , 2013 11 : 41am | update on september 14 , 2013 11 : 41am .
a allegedly intoxicated driver who try to flee after striking and fatally injure a woman in queen have be charge in she murder , accord to police .
police respond to the richmond hill crash on the corner of 117th street and 97th avenue at 7 : 01 p . m . on friday to find the unconscious raj k . chohan , 59 , of college point , lie in the roadway , the nypd say .
ems crew rush chohan to jamaica hospital for treatment , where she be later pronounced dead .
a initial investigation of the scene reveal that chohan have be walk alongside the park car on 117th street when she be strike by a vehicle head northbound , police say .
the driver take off after the accident , but witness identify the vehicle as a grey 2013 toyota camry and vishwanand subryan , 23 , of schenectady , be identify and arrest not far from the scene , police say .
subryan be charge with criminally negligent homicide , vehicular manslaughter , leave the scene of a accident result in death , and drive while intoxicate .
a investigation into the crime be still ongoing , police say .
pedestrian fatally hit outside bloomington sam 's club .
police use taser to arrest hit-and-run suspect .
police have arrest a man in the hit and-run death of a woman in the parking lot crosswalk at sam 's club in bloomington .
66-year-old luann johnson , of burnsville , be hit while walk in the crosswalk around 7 p.m. wednesday night .
the driver flee the scene after the woman be hit .
she husband watch it happen .
anthony phillip lasalle , 36 , of bloomington , be pull over a few block away , where police say he be uncooperative , refuse to exit he car .
after the suspect motorist hit the woman , he allegedly hit another car in the parking lot and another car on american boulevard .
there , lasalle , also know by law enforcement as '' crazy t , '' be eventually taser and take into custody .
he have a prior dwi conviction in minnetonka from 1992 .
police say alcohol be a factor in the accident .
lasalle be expect to face charge on friday of criminal vehicular homicide , dwi , and drive with a limited license .
hit - and - run crash leave queen mother of 2 dead .
on behalf of newman , anzalone & newman , llp . post in hit and run accident on friday , september 20 , 2013 .
in new york , there be law about what to do if you have be involve in a accident .
one extremely important law be that both driver must remain at the scene of the crash if someone be injure or kill .
this law help make sure that no one be leave behind to try to get help on they own .
unfortunately , some people be too afraid of the other potential consequence of a serious crash that they choose to flee the scene , leave victim to fend for themselves .
this type of negligence can lead to a delay in treatment , which could result in death .
just last week , a serious hit - and - run accident take place in queen .
when a 59 - year - old woman step out of she car at 97th avenue and 117th street , she be strike by a car .
instead of stop to help she , however , the driver flee the scene .
sadly , the mother of two die from injury she sustain in the crash .
thankfully , a police officer be nearby and see the collision .
he chase down the driver and eventually arrest he .
the driver be charge with drunk driving , leave the scene of a accident result in death , and vehicular manslaughter .
for victim injure in a hit - and - run accident and the family member of those who be kill by hit - and - run driver , the aftermath of such accident can be very difficult to deal with .
on top of try to recover from injury or grieve the loss of a love one , many people wonder how they will be able to obtain compensation for cost incur due to the accident .
even if you not know who hit you , there be way to obtain compensation for the damages inflict in a hit - and - run crash .
whether you work with a attorney to find the driver or pursue compensation through you personal injury protection coverage , there be way to make sure you get the financial help you need after a accident .
police release id of woman kill in parking lot .
accord to police , anthony lasalle , 36 , of minneapolis , hit and kill a 66-year-old luann marie johnson in the parking lot of the bloomington sam 's club wednesday night .
holiday shopping turn traumatic for dozen of people in bloomington wednesday night after a woman be kill right in front of they , while she husband struggle to keep she alive .
police say johnsonwa in the crosswalk around 7 p.m. when the car first hit she .
the driver , lasalle , then pause as johnson 's husband try to stop he .
then lasalle hit the gas , run she over and drag she as he try to get away .
'' the moment he hit that gas , i go , that woman just die , '' say wcco tv manage editor angela benson .
just seconds before , benson and she two young son be walk in the same crosswalk .
'' i turn around and there be a man tell a car no , no , no , stop , wait a second . ' .
and there be a woman lay on the ground in front of the tire , '' recall benson .
she say the driver then gun the car and take off , hit several car in the parking lot along the way .
'' he hit she and roll over she , and she roll under he car a good 10 foot , '' benson say .
police catch up to he after he rear-end a park car at a stop light on lyndale avenue .
'' the driver be uncooperative , make some veil threat that they would have to shoot he to get he out .
he be subsequently tase by police , '' say bloomington police sgt. marty earley .
meantime , salvation army bell ringer michael gallagher run to help johnson and she hysterical husband .
'' he be pretty shake up .
he try to provide first aid for she , and try to provide comfort for she , '' say earley .
gallagher be back on the job the next day .
he have only one thing to say about the horrible thing he see the night before .
'' we heart and prayer go out to the man and he wife who die , '' he say .
that be something that benson echo .
'' i just feel sad , i feel really sad for that man cry over he wife , '' she say .
police arrest lasalle for drunk driving .
accord to he police record , this be he second dwi and he use the alias '' crazy t '' .
he be expect to be charge with the hit-and-run by noon on friday .
investigator say sam 's club be look over its surveillance tape and will hand it over to police to check out .
a sam 's club spokesperson say this be a terrible tragedy and they heart and thought be with the woman 's family .
woman kill in queen hit - run , driver charge .
the woman be take to jamaica hospital in traumatic arrest .
saturday , sep 14 , 2013 .
police say a 59 - year - old woman die after be strike by a vehicle in queen friday night and that officer find and arrest the driver who hit she a few block away .
raj chohan be hit by a 2013 gray camry near 117th street and 97th avenue in richmond hill .
the victim nephew say she have just get out of a car and be walk when the car come out of nowhere and hit she from behind .
she forehead hit the back of the headlight , and the headlight break , '' say manpreet singh .
everybody in shock right now , '' say singh .
the driver , who police identify as vishwanand subryan , flee the scene but be apprehend by police shortly afterward .
subryan , 23 , be charge with vehicular manslaughter , criminally negligent homicide , leave the scene of a accident result in death and drive while intoxicate .
information on a lawyer for subryan be not immediately available .
authority have release the name of a 66-year-old woman who be walk outside the sam 's club in bloomington when she be strike and kill by a motorist .
police identify the victim on thursday as luann marie johnson of burnsville .
johnson be walk in a crosswalk outside the store when she be strike around 7 p.m. wednesday .
police say a man outside the sam 's club tell the 36-year-old driver to stop but he keep go .
police pull he over a few block away and say they have to taser he to get he out of the car .
the woman be pronounced dead at hcmc .
woman kill in queen hit - and - run accident , driver charge .
a woman have die after be hit by a car that flee the scene in queen friday , and now , the driver be face manslaughter charge .
arrest make in bloomington hit and run .
police arrest a man they believe to be the hit and run driver who kill a 66-year-old woman outside the sam 's club in bloomington .
bloomington officer say luann marie johnson , of burnsville , be walk with she husband be hit in the crosswalk of the parking lot of the store , locate off american boulevard , around 7 p.m. wednesday .
paramedic rush johnson to hennepin county medical center where she die .
police say they pull over the driver , anthony lasalle , a few block away after he have strike two other vehicle while flee the scene .
official have to use a taser on lasalle to get he out of he car .
accord to court record , lasalle have three prior dui conviction span from 1990 to 1991 .
he also have two motor vehicle theft conviction .
lasalle be in custody , pend formal charge that be expect friday .
the crash be still under investigation .
woman kill in queen hit - and - run accident , driver charge .
update 9 : 06 be .
a woman have die after be hit by a car that flee the scene in queen , and now , the driver be face manslaughter charge .
witness say 59 - year - old raj chohan be leave she car on 117th street in south richmond hill friday when she be hit by a silver toyota camry and send fly into the air .
she die at the hospital .
police catch up with the driver , who be from schnectady , a few block away .
he have be charge with vehicular manslaughter , negligent homicide and flee the scene of a accident .
trial begin for kraft shooting suspect .
the murder trial of a suspend female employee who allegedly shoot and kill two co - worker two year ago start monday .
monday , sep 10 , 2012 | update 9 : 01 be edt .
the murder trial for the suspend kraft food employee accuse of shooting three co - worker , kill two of they , start monday .
yvonne hiller , 43 , be charge with murder for the shooting death of two female co - worker in september 2010 .
hiller be also charge with attempt murder for allegedly shooting and injure a third co - worker .
police say that the shooting happen minute after hiller be suspend from she job at the kraft plant follow a altercation with the three victim .
they say she force she way through security at gunpoint , walk into the employee lounge where the three victim be and shoot they .
9 / 10 / 2010 @ 1 : 19pm .
female employee yvonne hiller kill two in kraft shooting .
in a sad and surprising reversal of gender role , a disgruntled woman open fire at a kraft factory in philadelphia last night , kill two worker and wound two other .
the shooting happen moment after the employee , yvonne hiller , be suspend from she job at kraft , where she '' d work for 15 year , the daily news report .
after be escort from the snack plant , she re - enter 10 minute later with a handgun .
about 100 people be in the building when she begin shoot .
hiller be take into custody after a standoff with the swat team .
a kraft representative confirm hiller be now in police custody and that one of the wound employee be in the hospital .
'' this be a sad time for the kraft food family , '' a statement read .
'' we be work closely with the authority as they investigate this situation , and we facility be close until further notice . '' .
unfortunately , the most surprising aspect of this incident be the shooter '' s gender .
woman shooter be rare but may be on the rise .
in february , a woman open fire at the university of alabama , kill three and injure several other .
reportedly , she be a professor whose tenure have be deny .
two year ago , a female college student commit a shooting at a louisiana college .
kraft shooting : yvonne hiller charge with two count of murder .
09 / 10 / 10 08 : 23 pm et .
a kraft food plant worker who have be suspend for feud with colleague , then escort from the building , return minute later with a handgun , find she foe in a break room and execute two of they with a single bullet each and critically wound a third , police say friday .
yvonne hiller , 43 , have get into a argument thursday evening with she co - worker at the northeast philadelphia plant , police say .
after she be discipline , she go to she vehicle , make several phone call , and then grab a . 357 magnum and use it to force she way past security guard at the front gate .
about 100 people be at work at the plant , which make nabisco cookie and cracker .
hiller walk to the third - floor mix area and find four people in the break room .
she have no quarrel with one woman and tell she to leave .
she then open fire on the other , philadelphia homicide capt . jame clark say .
she believe they be spray chemical at she , say thing behind she back , '' clark say .
after leave the break room , hiller go down a hallway and fire shot at the supervisor who have suspend she and at a mechanic who be use a walkie - talkie to alert police and co - worker to she whereabouts , police say .
she miss both .
hiller finally go to a second - floor office and call police to tell they what she have do , authority say .
seven other worker be hide in a closet nearby .
cpl . janice leader , a 911 dispatcher , tell reporter friday that hiller call 911 , say be the one you look for and report that she have be harass at work .
keep she on the line , leader say she tell hiller to put the gun down and place she hand on she head so officer would take any aggressive action against she .
when tactical police who have enter the plant find she , hiller be in a fetal position on the floor , the gun beside she .
police call the mechanic a hero who do a phenomenal job in alert employee to evacuate the building and direct officer to where hiller be .
by follow the suspect at great peril to himself -- and we can see that by the fact that he be shoot at and almost hit -- he reduce we tactical problem quite dramatically , '' chief inspector joe sullivan say .
police identify the victim as tanya renee wilson , 47 ; latonya sharon brown , 36 ; and bryant a . dalton , 39 , all of philadelphia .
wilson and brown die at the plant .
dalton , shoot in the neck , remain in intensive care friday at jefferson university hospital , police say .
the plant will remain closed indefinitely , kraft say .
we suspend the employee when she become agitate and use profanity .
we want the opportunity to investigate the situation , '' kraft say in a statement friday .
hiller be charge with two count of murder , one count of attempt murder , aggravate assault and other charge .
she have a permit to carry the gun , authority say .
hiller have work for kraft for about 15 year , and have be in repeat argument there in the past several year , a few of they physical , clark say .
yet a next - door neighbor describe hiller as a quiet woman who keep to herself but say she be polite and exchange pleasantry when they see each other .
catherine hillgen , who have live on the tidy middle - class city block for about 45 year , say hiller move in several year ago with she son but recently have be live alone .
she initially dismiss a neighbor report thursday that hiller might be involve in a fatal workplace shooting , but then hear she name on the news friday .
it be a complete shock , '' hillgen say .
i would not expect it . '' .
kraft , base in northfield , ill . , also make oreo cookie , philadelphia cream cheese , oscar mayer bacon and other product .
mass shooting be rarely carry out by woman , say dr . park dietz , president of threat assessment group inc . , a newport beach , calif . - base violence prevention firm .
earlier this year , amy bishop , a former instructor and researcher at the university of alabama huntsville campus , be charge with murder in a campus shooting spree that leave three biology professor dead and three other employee wound .
she claim the shooting do happen . '' .
thursday shooting come just week after a driver who have be accuse of steal from a manchester , conn . , beer distributorship fatally shoot eight people , then himself .
the driver , who be black , have seethe with a sense of racial injustice in he job , say he girlfriend .
but the beer distributor president say there be no record to support claim of racial insensitivity . '' .
kraft food shooter yvonne hiller charge with two count of murder .
hiller feud with co - worker prior to shooting ; risk factor and prevention of workplace violence .
sep 10 , 2010 .
yvonne hiller , a suspend kraft food employee at the company philadelphia factory , return thursday evening , gun down two woman and leave a man wound with shot to the neck and shoulder .
another man be also injure but not seriously .
a few minute after be escort from the facility by security , hiller drive she car through a security barrier and enter where roughly 100 people be .
accord to the philadelphia inquirer , she be carry a . 357 magnum handgun .
accord to the huffington post , police say hiller feud with she victim prior to they shooting death .
hiller make she way to the third - floor mix room where she work , located she victim in the break room , and open fire .
she also fire through a wall at police officer but none be hit .
the swat team apprehend yvonne hiller while she hide in a second - floor office and she have be charge with two count of murder .
kraft have close the philadelphia factory until further notice .
kraft food susan davison say , this be a tragic loss for all of we .
to assist we employee , we will be provide counseling service at the facility .
at this time , we be still try to confirm the fact . '' .
davison add , we again express we deepest condolence to the family who have be touch by this tragedy . '' .
11 / 09 / 2010 .
kraft shooting : yvonne hiller charge with two count of murder .
a kraft food plant worker who have be suspend for feud with colleague , then escort from the building , return minute later with a handgun , find she foe in a break room and execute two of they with a single bullet each and critically wound a third , police say friday .
yvonne hiller , 43 , have get into a argument thursday evening with she co - worker at the northeast philadelphia plant , police say .
after she be discipline , she go to she vehicle , make several phone call , and then grab a . 357 magnum and use it to force she way past security guard at the front gate .
about 100 people be at work at the plant , which make nabisco cookie and cracker .
hiller walk to the third - floor mix area and find four people in the break room .
she have no quarrel with one woman and tell she to leave .
she then open fire on the other , philadelphia homicide capt . jame clark say .
she believe they be spray chemical at she , say thing behind she back , '' clark say .
after leave the break room , hiller go down a hallway and fire shot at the supervisor who have suspend she and at a mechanic who be use a walkie - talkie to alert police and co - worker to she whereabouts , police say .
she miss both .
hiller finally go to a second - floor office and call police to tell they what she have do , authority say .
seven other worker be hide in a closet nearby .
cpl . janice leader , a 911 dispatcher , tell reporter friday that hiller call 911 , say be the one you look for and report that she have be harass at work .
keep she on the line , leader say she tell hiller to put the gun down and place she hand on she head so officer would take any aggressive action against she .
sixty-year-old sharron diane crawford smith be now accuse of murder two woman at a staunton ice cream store in 1967 .
co - worker call alleged shooter : very spiritual .
friday , sep 10 , 2010 | update 8 : 52 pm edt .
she not a loose cannon .
she a hard worker , work very hard .
she very spiritual . '' .
kenneth dorsey say the woman accuse of kill two co - worker and critically injure a third at the kraft plant in northeast philly be a good person .
and so be the two woman she accuse of gun down with a . 357 magnum , just minute after she be suspend and escort from the building .
dorsey be at the plant for 37 year and work on the third floor with the three victim and the alleged shooter , yvonne hiller .
they have argue , from what i be tell , they argue , '' dorsey tell nbc10 rosemary connor after the shooting thursday night .
i have just start my job , you know and i hear like bang , bang , but you hear noise everyday at a bakery so you not pay any mind . '' .
then a co - worker yell , come on , you get to leave now !
she shooting . '' .
after the shooting , hiller hole up in a office on the second floor where the swat team find she after co - worker who be hide in the office next door tip off building security .
i never think in my deepest heart that it would come down to this , '' dorsey say .
some co - worker say she have a history of run - in with other worker and management , dorsey say like anyone , they sometimes have they difference , but always get along .
we talk about she muslim faith and i wish she happy ramadan , '' dorsey say .
i might be wrong , but my guess be she have some people that she have issue with and a personal agenda , a score she have to settle . '' .
dorsey say the shooting be go to be hard on everyone .
be like family here . '' .
tell you audience to keep the family in you prayer , however you pray - - whether you jewish , christian , muslim - - be all in shock ... ... ...
and i lose two of my closest friend ... ... ...
be gon go home and take a shower and read the bible and pray .
hopefully , i can get through this .
a 60-year-old woman charge with kill two young woman in a staunton ice cream shop 41 year ago be release without bail , authority say friday , because she be die from kidney and heart disease and living in a hospice facility .
suspend worker kill 2 woman in kraft factory shooting : police .
the woman accuse have just be escort from the building 10 minute earlier .
friday , sep 10 , 2010 | update 9 : 28 be edt .
minute after a woman be suspend and escort from she job at the kraft food plant in northeast philadelphia , she return with a . 357 magnum and open fire , kill two woman and critically injure a third co - worker before be take into custody , police say .
the shooting happen shortly after 8 : 30 p . m . thursday .
about 10 minute after the yvonne hiller be escort out , she return in a car and drive through a security barrier before re - enter the building on foot , lt . frank vanore say .
she walk inside , firing a shot at a employee who have follow she in and have yell , hide , she get a gun ! '' vanore say .
that shot miss .
hiller , 43 , then shoot the three victim , accord to police - - the woman be shoot on the third floor and the man she confront on the stair as she go down to the second floor where she barricade herself into a office .
officer free seven people who have lock themselves in a office next to the shooter , say vanore .
investigator do say why hiller , a 15 - year employee , be suspend .
one witness tell nbc philadelphia that she have a history of run - in with co - worker and management .
dough mixer andy ryan , who have work at the plant for nearly 30 year , say he be on the third floor when the sound of the shot .
echo through the building .
i hear the gunfire , and i run , '' he tell the associated press , he apron still on .
as i be run down the step they be yell , oh , my god , there three people shoot ! ' .
this be a sad day for the kraft food family , '' the company say in a statement .
we thought and prayer go out to they family .
the loss of a love one be a great sorrow . '' .
kraft say the plant would be close until further notice and the company would provide employee with counseling .
staunton police on friday arrest a 60-year-old , terminally ill woman in the 1967 killing of two young woman at a local ice cream stand , end a agonizing 41-year odyssey for the victim ' family .
charge with murder : what most of the liberal media not tell you about the very spiritual female kraft employee who shoot three co - worker .
the woman who allegedly shoot three co - worker -- kill two at the kraft plant thursday night have be charge with murder , attempt murder , aggravate assault , burglary , and other related charge , say philadelphia district attorney seth william .
the victim and allege shooter in the last night '' s kraft plant shooting have a history of argue that date back several year -- the suspect think she co - worker be spray chemical on she and talk behind she back , accord to police .
yvonne hiller , 43 , get into a altercation with the two woman and a male co - worker thursday night , be take to the supervisor '' s office , suspend and escort out of the building . .
ten minute after be take off the job , hiller drive she car to the security gate and force she way in at gunpoint , police say , and head back up to the third floor arm with she . 357 magnum , which she have a permit to carry .
she go to the employee lounge , see four of she co - worker -- three of with whom she '' d just have the altercation .
the fourth person tell she to get out of the lounge .
she shoot the other three , police say .
bryant dalton , 39 , be shoot in the neck and be hospitalize in critical condition .
latonya brown , 36 , be shoot in the head and tanya wilson , 47 , be shoot in the side .
both woman die .
kenneth dorsey say the woman accuse of kill two co - worker and critically injure a third at the kraft plant in northeast philly be a good person .
and so be the two woman she '' be accuse of gun down with a . 357 magnum , just minute after she '' d be suspend and escort from the building .
'' we talk about she muslim faith and i wish she happy ramadan , '' dorsey say .
'' i never think in my deepest heart that it would come down to this , '' dorsey say .
the reason hiller be suspend have not be make public friday afternoon and while some co - worker say she have a history of run - in with other worker and management , dorsey say like anyone , they sometimes have they difference , but always get along .
a co-worker have be charge in the 1967 slaying of two woman at a ice cream shop in staunton , but authority say the suspect be near death with a terminal illness .
` very spiritual '' muslim woman shoot co - worker .
on september 10th , 2010 .
accord to report , a muslim woman name yvonne hiller shot and kill two co - worker at a kraft plant in philadelphia .
the staunton police department announce friday they have make a arrest in a 41-year-old double murder case .
staunton police chief jim william announce 61-year-old sharron diane crawford smith be arrest around 10:24 a.m. friday and charge with two count of first degree murder .
yvonne hiller , accuse in kraft shooting , be a muslim .
september 10 , 2010 .
yvonne hiller , who have be arrest and charge with the kraft shooting of she co - worker at kraft food yesterday evening have be reveal to be a muslim who be very spiritual .
at this point it be unclear if the shooting have anything to do with the approach anniversary of the 9 - 11 attack on america by radical member of the muslim faith .
however it do seem odd that hiller have a . 357 magnum in she car , which be what she use .
that '' be a pretty heavy - duty gun .
nbc philadelphia have interview another co - worker of hers , kenneth dorsey , and he say he have talk with she about she muslim faith and even wish she happy ramadan .
staunton police this morning arrest sharron diane crawford smith , of staunton , on first-degree murder charge in the 1967 slaying of two woman at high 's ice cream shop .
accuse philadelphia kraft food killer hold for trial .
december 7 , 2010 11 : 18 pm .
the woman who allegedly shoot and kill two co - worker in september at the kraft food plant in northeast philadelphia will face trial on multiple count of murder and attempt murder .
at a hearing on tuesday , assistant district attorney gail fairman describe 43 - year - old yvonne hiller as a '' methodical killer '' who wave a gun within a foot of a security guard '' s face to regain access to the plant less than ten minute after she have be escort out .
'' she return like a grim reaper , '' say ada fairman , '' and she only shoot the one that she hold responsible for she suspension . '' .
fairman say that when hiller find a group of co - worker in a break room , she allow one person to leave unharmed .
'' at one point , there be a co - worker hold onto latoya brown , '' say fairman , '' and the defendant order that worker away , and then she shoot brown . '' .
hiller have repeat run - in with co - worker , whom she accuse of spray she with a deer scent , among other thing -lrb- see related story -rrb- .
two woman be pronounced dead at the scene , and a male co - worker be wound .
a detective testify during the preliminary hearing about hiller '' s statement to police , claim people have be spray she for year .
the defense would not comment on strategy plan for the trial .
a onetime co-worker have be charge in the 1967 slaying of two woman at a ice cream shop in staunton , but authority say the suspect be near death with a terminal illness .
woman convict of double murder in 2010 kraft food rampage in ne philadelphia .
september 10 , 2012 4 : 15 pm .
a philadelphia judge today find a former kraft food company employee guilty of murder in a workplace rampage exactly two year ago in northeast philadelphia that leave two woman dead and a third employee wound .
witness say defendant yvonne hiller have long complain of abuse by fellow employee , claim they be poisoning she by spray she with chemical include deer urine .
but authority say the allegation be investigate by police and osha and be determine to be unfounded .
then , on september 10 , 2010 , accord to a survive victim , hiller go berserk again , cursing and make accusation and threat .
she be suspend on the spot and escort from the building .
but , the witness say , she return minute later with a gun , open fire on several employee in a break room , kill latonya brown and tanya wilson , and wound bryant dalton .
dalton say the bullet go through he neck and lodge in he shoulder , and be still there .
in the one - day , non - jury trial , common plea court judge benjamin lerner find hiller guilty of two count of first - degree murder and one count of attempt murder .
the automatic sentence in life in prison , although formal sentencing will take place at a later date .
the staunton police department will hold a press conference this afternoon to address its investigation into a double murder back in 1967 .
2 dead , 1 wound in shooting at ne phila . kraft plant .
september 10 , 2010 10 : 14 be .
police say two people have be kill and another wound in a shooting at the kraft food plant in northeast philadelphia .
the alleged shooter be in police custody .
kyw '' s pat loeb report that the shooting take place just after 8 : 30pm thursday night inside the old nabisco factory , along the 12000 block of roosevelt boulevard , at woodhaven road .
authority say the incident begin after the fifteen - year employee , 43 - year - old yvonne hiller , be suspend .
police commissioner charle ramsey say she be escort out of the building and be outside for nine minute before come back .
'' she drive she car through a barrier and enter the premise .
she have a . 357 magnum .
make she way to the third - floor mix room , where she encounter at least three of the employee .
two , she shoot and kill there in the room .
a third be also shoot . '' .
the third victim , identify as brian dalton , be rush to aria health '' s torresdale campus with a gunshot wound .
he be later transfer to jefferson and list in stable condition .
officer respond to 911 call from other employee inside the building , arrive with swat team and other personnel who be train in a '' active shooter '' situation , accord to commissioner ramsey .
he say most of the other 100 worker inside be able to get out safely .
seven employee be trap near the shooter , but cop say they be able to free they , disarm the woman , and take she into custody .
kyw '' s paul kurtz report that commissioner ramsey credit a special training program for prevent even more bloodsh last night .
the commissioner say he '' s put many officer through what '' s call '' active shooter '' training for first - respond officer .
'' we '' ve learn from columbine and other place that you can '' t wait , you can '' t just sit there and wait for swat .
you '' ve get to at least make entry and try to get as many people out as possible , isolate the shooter , and then hopefully swat arrive in enough time to take care of the situation .
they do a excellent job , the 7th and 8th district in particular .
those officer do a outstanding job . '' .
and it turn out that at least seven of the officer who rush to the kraft factory have '' active shooter '' training .
ramsey say he plan to expand the program .
hiller be expect to be arraign on two murder charge and one attempt murder charge later today .
kraft food issue a statement early this morning announce that the northeast facility be close until further notice .
the statement express condolence for the family of the dead and wounded employee , say , '' this be a tragic loss for all of we . '' .
it state that kraft be work closely with the authority as they investigate and will be provide counseling service for employee at the facility .
this morning , 41 year later , staunton police have arrest and charge sharron diane crawford smith , age 61 , with two count of first-degree murder .
murder trial order for woman accuse in kraft plant shooting .
post : december 08 , 2010 .
yvonne hiller be certain she be be target for surreptitious chemical abuse , '' but no one believe she story .
she accuse she coworker of spray she with deer urine , prompt she to complain to a federal safety agency .
she think she lawncrest neighbor be run a meth lab , and she call police to she apartment numerous time for the smell . '' .
she believe that chemical be ruin she health , and have visit several doctor and counselor since 2007 .
despite all that , she could find the source of the toxin she think be plague she .
hiller tell homicide detective that she mounting frustration finally culminate in september , when she go on a shooting rampage through the kraft food plant in northeast philadelphia , where she have work for 15 year .
in she statement , hiller admit kill two coworker and seriously wound a third .
homicide detective dominic mangonus , testify tuesday at hiller preliminary hearing , say he ask how she feel just hour after the shooting .
i not feel anything , '' she say , accord to the statement .
i just wish people would accept I for what i be . '' .
after the hearing , hiller , 43 , be order hold on multiple count of murder , attempt murder , and other crime .
a arraignment be schedule for this month .
the defense do not call any witness .
hiller enter the courtroom wear a black garment and black head scarf .
she wave and wink at a clutch of family member in the gallery .
the other side of the room be pack with family member of the victim - latonya brown , 36 , and tanya wilson , 47 , both of whom die in the third - floor break room where they be shoot .
the third victim , bryant dalton , 39 , spend two week in the hospital and be recover from gunshot to the neck and shoulder , prosecutor say .
after the hearing , dorothy brown say she be heartbroken over the death of she granddaughter , who have four child .
she leave they child , '' she say , break into tear .
she be a beautiful person , too . '' .
stephen devine , a civil attorney for the brown family , say relative would hold a vigil thursday at they home at 11th and poplar street to mark the three - month anniversary of the shooting .
wilson family and dalton also be represent by civil attorney , but devine say it be too soon to say if they would file a lawsuit .
at the preliminary hearing , the family hear for the first time some answer to question they have since the tragic event occur , '' devine say .
hiller work with the three victim in the mix department at the plant at roosevelt boulevard and byberry road .
kraft make ritz cracker , lorna doone cookie , and other baked goods there .
on the night of the shooting , hiller again confront she coworker about she belief that they be spray she with deer scent .
they tell I they do know what i be talk about , '' hiller say in she statement .
i tell they , you think this be a prank , but you not know what this be do to my body . ' '' .
after the confrontation , hiller be suspend from she job for the second time in two month .
the other suspension come after she leave a voice mail on she supervisor phone , complain about be spray .
hiller be escort from the property .
she tell detective that she plan on go right home . '' .
but then i start to think about the 15 year i spend there and how it be take away from I , '' she say in she statement .
she return with a . 357 magnum that she legally own and keep under the seat of she car .
she point the gun at two unarmed security guard and order they to let she back in the building .
she say she seek out the three coworker from she shift and open fire .
hiller admit firing at several other employee , but deny shooting at the first officer who respond to the scene .
but officer michael murphy , from the seventh district , testify that hiller fire at he and two other officer from down a hallway .
the bullet , he say , go over he left shoulder and hit the wall behind he .
after shut herself in a quality control room on the second floor , hiller make a number of phone call to relative and police .
a 911 supervisor persuade she to surrender to swat officer on the scene .
police say a perth mountain climber who watch he brother fall over the edge of new zealand 's highest mountain be devastate .
british climber die in new zealand fall .
robert buckley the second climber to die in the aoraki - mount cook national park at the weekend .
monday 16 september 2013 03 . 31 bst .
a british climber have fall to he death in new zealand .
robert buckley , 32 , fall about 2 , 000 foot while climb to a small hut on mount sefton in the aoraki - mount cook national park on saturday , police say .
buckley , who have be live and work in christchurch , be one of four man who be try to climb to the sefton bivvy from mount cook village , accord to new zealand media report .
they be within 80m of they destination when buckley slip .
he companion raise the alarm , but then get stick .
a rescue helicopter find buckley and the other but they could not be rescue until the next morning .
buckley body be recover later in the day .
police say in a statement it appear the group be insufficiently equip and experience for the climb .
the three other climber be release after a examination by medical staff .
the day before buckley death another climber , 36 - year - old duncan rait , die after slip and fall about 200 foot from a ridge in the same national park .
the new zealand - bear man , who live in australia , have be be drop off by helicopter and be walk to a hut when he fall in the tasman glacier area .
police spokesman dave gaskin say the death be a reminder that climber need to use extreme caution .
i cant speak for the first death , but in this case it look like to be a lack of experience , '' gaskin tell the timaru herald .
a foreign office spokeswoman say : we be aware of the death of a british man in new zealand .
we be provide consular assistance at this time .
new zealand : british climber kill in fall .
8 : 05am uk , monday 16 september 2013 .
a 32 - year - old british climber , describe as lack experience , die after fall from a mountain in new zealand .
a british man have be kill after fall around 2 , 000ft while climb in new zealand .
robert buckley , 32 , be climb to a small hut on mount sefton in the aoraki - mt cook national park on saturday .
he be wear crampon but be inexperienced , local police inspector dave gaskin say .
he body be recover by a team of rescuer on sunday afternoon after previous attempt prove unsuccessful .
three climber who be with mr buckley be rescue after spend the night on the mountain .
they be also release after be examine by medic .
mr gaskin say : there be a lot of snow and ice in very steep condition .
it appear as if the party be insufficiently equip and inexperienced for the climb they have undertake . '' .
mr buckley death come a day after 36 - year - old duncan raite die when he slip and fall around 200ft from a ridge in the same national park .
the new zealand - bear man , who live in australia , have be drop off by helicopter and be walk to a hut when he fall in the tasman glacier area .
mr gaskin say the death be a reminder that climber need to use extreme caution .
he say : i not speak for the first death , but in this case it look like to be a lack of experience . '' .
a foreign office spokeswoman say : we be aware of the death of a british man in new zealand .
we be provide consular assistance at this time . '' .
a australian climber who survive two night stick on mount cook after see he brother die narrowly escape be bury alive .
climber dead after aorakus mount cook fall .
last update 13 : 26 14 / 09 / 2013 .
a 36 - year - old australian climber be dead after fall about 150 metre at aoraki mount cook .
the man , from hampton east , fall in the tasman glacier area .
a westpac rescue helicopter from christchurch be call about 3pm to assist with search and rescue co - ordination at the mt cook base .
when it get there , the man have be transport to mt cook village by a local helicopter service and pronounce dead by paramedic .
the man be think to have fall much earlier in the day .
dr mark vinar , 43 , be presume dead after disappear off zurbriggen ridge , on mt cook , on thursday .
two climber kill in mt cook fall .
last update 15 : 48 15 / 09 / 2013 .
the aoraki mt cook alpine rescue team have recover the body of the second climber to fall to he death at mount cook national park over the weekend .
inspector dave gaskin say the man fall around 2000ft -lrb- 609 metre -rrb- near the mount sefton bivvy , above the mueller glacier .
the fall be unsurvivable , '' inspector gaskin say .
there be four in the climb party .
the friend of the decease have to stay in position overnight until the weather be suitable to carry they out by rescue helicopter this morning .
the body be recover in the afternoon , and take to mt cook village initially , then on to timaru .
inspector gaskin confirm the climb party be foreigner , but would not specify any other detail until the family of the decease have be inform .
with two death at mt cook national park this weekend , inspector gaskin say police and rescure be push to they limit .
resource be tight , there no doubt about that .
it be very difficult but the guy have do a wonderful job . '' .
he say the two death be not relate to weather condition .
i not speak for the first death , but in this case it look like to be a lack of experience , '' inspector gaskin say .
yesterday , a 36 - year - old australian climber die after fall about 150 metre at mt cook .
the man , from hampton east , fall in the tasman glacier area .
a westpac rescue helicopter from christchurch be call about 3pm to assist with search and rescue co - ordination at the mt cook base .
when it get there , the man have be transport to mt cook village by a local helicopter service and pronounce dead by paramedic .
the man be think to have fall much earlier in the day .
a colleague have pay tribute to a perth doctor fear dead after a fall from a mountain in new zealand .
english and australian climber fall to they death in new zealand mountain .
one australian and one english climber have fall to they death in new zealand .
8 : 44am bst 16 sep 2013 .
police inspector dave gaskin say the two incident on consecutive day in the aoraki - mt . cook national park be not related and be not due to bad weather .
he say they come as a reminder that climber need to use extreme caution .
on friday , 36 - year - old duncan rait die after slip and fall about 200ft from a ridge near the tasman glacier .
the new zealand - bear australian be plan to do some ski touring .
he '' d be drop off by helicopter with a group and be walk to a hut when he fall , slide down a steep slope and over a cliff .
gaskin say that other climber attempt to rescue raite by take he down the glacier , but that he die on the way down .
on saturday , 32 - year - old englishman robert buckley , originally from essex , but live in christchurch , fall about 2 , 000ft while climb to a small hut on mount sefton with three companion .
gaskin say buckley be wear crampon but be inexperienced .
police say that mr buckley group appear to be insufficiently equip and inexperienced for the climb they choose .
they have hire some climb equipment early that day and have manage to get within 80 meter of the bivvy , '' police say .
at this stage ... ... ... one of the party have slip on the ice and have fall some 700 metre to he death . '' .
mark vinar , a australian climber from perth , have be presume dead after fall over half a kilometre from new zealand 's highest peak , mount cook .
september 15 , 2013 11 : 26 pm .
australian , english climber fall to they death in new zealand mountain .
one australian and one english climber have fall to they death in new zealand .
police inspector dave gaskin say monday the two incident on consecutive day in the aoraki - mt . cook national park be not related and be not due to bad weather .
he say they come as a reminder that climber need to use extreme caution .
on friday , 36 - year - old duncan raite die after slip and fall about 60 metre -lrb- 200 foot -rrb- from a ridge .
the new zealand - bear australian be plan to do some ski touring .
he '' d be drop off by helicopter and be walk to a hut when he fall .
on saturday , 32 - year - old englishman robert buckley fall about 600 metre -lrb- 2 , 000 foot -rrb- while climb to a small hut on mount sefton .
gaskin say buckley be wear crampon but be inexperienced .
a australian climber who watch he brother fall to he death on new zealand 's highest peak say he be expect to die that night on the treacherous mountain .
16 september 2013 last update at 12 : 42 gmt .
briton die in new zealand aoraki mount cook national park .
a british climber have fall 2 , 000ft to he death on a mountain in new zealand , police there have say .
robert buckley , 32 , die while climb to a hut on mount sefton in the aoraki mount cook national park on saturday .
police inspector dave gaskin say mr buckley be well equip at the time but be a inexperienced climber .
a foreign office spokeswoman say : we be aware of the death of a british man in new zealand .
we be provide consular assistance at this time . '' .
extreme caution .
mr buckley , originally from essex in the uk , live in new zealand , say the press association news agency .
he body be recover by a team of rescuer on sunday afternoon after attempt on saturday be unsuccessful , accord to local media report .
three climber with mr buckley be say to have be rescue after spend the night on the mountain .
they be be release after a medical examination .
mr buckley death come a day after 36 - year - old duncan rait be kill after slip and fall 200ft from a ridge in the same national park .
the new zealander , who live in australia , have be be drop off by helicopter and be walk to a hut when he fall in the tasman glacier area .
inspector gaskin say the death be a reminder that climber need to use extreme caution .
i not speak for the first death but in this case it look like to be a lack of experience , '' he tell the timaru herald .
mile vinar speak to one news about see he brother plunge to he death on thursday , and about he own desperate battle to stay alive on the mountain .
australian , english climber kill in new zealand .
september 16 , 2013 11 : 12am .
one australian and one english climber have fall to they death in new zealand , police confirm today .
police inspector dave gaskin say the two incident on consecutive day in the aoraki - mt . cook national park be not related and be not due to bad weather .
he say they come as a reminder that climber need to use extreme caution .
on friday , 36 - year - old duncan rait die after slip and fall about 60m from a ridge near the tasman glacier .
the new zealand - bear australian be plan to do some ski touring .
he be drop off by helicopter with a group and be walk to a hut when he fall , slide down a steep slope and over a cliff .
gaskin say that other climber attempt to rescue rait by take he down the glacier , but that he die on the way down .
on saturday , 32 - year - old englishman robert buckley fall about 600m while climb to a small hut on mount sefton with three companion .
gaskin say buckley be wear crampon but be inexperienced .
a perth man have survive after spend up to two night in a ice cave on new zealand 's mt cook after see he brother fall to he death from the country 's highest peak .
second climber die at mt cook .
sun , 15 sep 2013 .
two man have die in separate climb accident at mt cook this weekend .
the aoraki mt cook alpine rescue team work today to recover the body of a climber after bad weather hinder effort yesterday .
the climber fall in fading light yesterday near the mt sefton bivvy , and rescue team be unable to reach he or he companion due to the weather .
police be still at the scene and say more detail will be release later .
the first of the death this weekend be that of a new zealand climber who fall on friday morning .
the 36 - year - old , who have be live in melbourne , slip and fall approximately 200 metre down a steep ice gully as he be approach the tasman saddle hut , police say .
he brother witness the fall and have to spend the night in a hut before rescuer could reach he .
the victim be still alive when rescuer reach he , helicopter line pilot jim campbell tell the herald on sunday .
he be very badly hurt and he lose he hat and glove in the fall so he be very cold . '' .
the rescue team have to carry the man by stretcher down a glacier , walk two hour to reach a rescue helicopter .
a westpac rescue helicopter from christchurch be call to help with search and rescue co - ordination at the mt cook base .
by the time it arrive , the man have be transport to mt cook village by a local helicopter service and have be pronounced dead by paramedic .
he have be plan a four - day ski tour of the area and be use the tasman saddle hut as a base , police say .
mr campbell say police tell he the man be well - equipped but be not wear crampon when he slip .
a massive rescue bid be make shortly after 11am on friday , with member of the aoraki mt cook department of conservation alpine rescue team , alpine guide , the helicopter line , twizel and fairlie police and westpac rescue paramedic all call in to help .
constable joseph rush , of twizel police , say the weather condition be severe , with poor visibility , strong wind gust and - 15c temperature .
the man name will not be release until family have be notify .
a climber who watch he brother fall to he death from a notorious ridge on mt cook , be lucky to be alive after two '' horrific '' night high on the mountain .
second man die in mt cook national park .
14 : 25 sun sep 15 2013 .
a second man have fall to he death in aoraki mount cook national park .
the man age in he early 30 fall about 600m while climb near the mount sefton bivvy on saturday afternoon .
rescue personnel be not able to reach he or he three companion , who be all from overseas , due to low light level on saturday , mid - south canterbury area commander inspector dave gaskin say .
they manage to have a look at he and it be pretty clear that there be no sign of life and they fly in today to retrieve the body , '' he tell nz newswire on sunday .
the other three man be rescue by about 10am on sunday morning .
we have be in a position to speak to the survivor at this stage , but it appear as if they equipment and preparation be limit , '' insp gaskin say .
it be the second death in the park in two day .
a 36 - year - old man die about 11am on friday after he slip and fall about 200m down a steep icy gully .
the man , a new zealander living in melbourne , be plan to go ski touring .
two death so close together be unusual for the time of year , insp gaskin say .
we not normally get too many climb accident at this time of year , it still basically winter condition here , so there very little climb do . '' .
the climb season generally start about late october / early november .
mr gaskin urge people not to go into situation unprepared .
this be a extremely dangerous area and if you go to climb or come into this area and go up high in the mountain , you get to make sure that you know what you do and you get all the appropriate equipment . '' .
a australian climber who survive two night stick on mount cook after see he brother die also narrowly escape be bury alive himself .
australian ski mountaineer die in fall in new zealand .
september 16 , 2013 9 : 36 be .
a 36 - year - old australian man die on friday after fall 150 meter from a ridge in aoraki / mt . cook national park on new zealand '' s south island .
duncan robert rait , a new zealand native living in melbourne , australia , be with a group of ski mountaineer who have just arrive by helicopter to a ridge top location near the tasman saddle hut .
while en route from the drop - off location to the hut he slip from the ridgeline and fall to he death .
rait have plan to spend four day ski tour in the area with he brother .
although not a factor in the accident , rescue effort be hamper by weather condition .
the rescue team be drop at the hut and then descend to the location of the injured man as the helicopter become ground due to poor weather .
rait be return to mt . cook village , where he be pronounced dead .
the day follow rait '' s death a inexperienced and reportedly ill - equipped mountain climber with rental gear , 31 - year - old robert buckley of the u . k . but live in christchurch , new zealand , slip on ice and fall 700 meter to he own death elsewhere in the same national park .
robber in drag steal e80 million from paris diamond store in biggest french heist .
paris thief nab 2 . 5 million worth of jewellery .
robber crash 4x4 into store , grab jewelry and watch , before set car ablaze .
four man ram they car into a upmarket jewellery store in central paris on monday , smash the shop window and make off with a two - million - euro -lrb- 2 . 6 - million -rrb- booty , a police source say .
the heist near the upscale place vendome be the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robbery in the southern resort of canne .
the police source , who wish to remain anonymous , say the man drive a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hour of the morning and grab jewellery and luxury watch worth a estimate two million euro .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escape in another car .
forensic investigator be currently go through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first district of paris , which be home to numerous jewellery shop .
at the end of july , a armed man carry out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in canne , make off with jewellery worth 103 million euro in one of the world biggest ever heist .
paris have also be the scene of high - profile robbery .
in december 2008 , three man empty almost all of the stock of gem from the harry winston jewellery store .
in 2009 , police say they have recover 80 percent of the haul .
the four robber , two of whom be disguise as woman , steal nearly all the jewellery on display at harry winston jeweller on the avenue montaigne , just off the champs-elysee in the french capital .
9 september 2013 , 14 : 08 .
paris : jewellery steal in casty shop raid .
jewellery and watch worth # . 7m have be steal during a heist in a upmarket central paris shop .
four man drive a 4x4 through the front window of the store on rue de castiglione , before make off with the jewellery and watch .
they then set fire to the vehicle before flee in another car .
forensic policeman be examine the casty store in the central first district of the capital , home to numerous jewellery shop .
the heist near place vendome be the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robbery in the southern resort of canne .
at the end of july , a armed man carry out a robbery at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in canne , make off with jewellery worth 88m in one of the world biggest ever heist .
and last month thief make off with 35 , 000 of jewellery after crack two safe at the luxury grand hotel du cap in saint - jean - cap - ferrat , near nice .
in may , thief steal 910 , 000 worth of jewellery from a employee of swiss firm chopard that be due to be loan to film star during the canne film festival and a second theft see a diamond necklace worth # . 2m steal .
paris have also be the scene of high - profile robbery .
in december 2008 , three man empty almost the entire stock of gem from the harry winston jewellery store .
police say they have recover 80 of the haul in 2009 .
harry winston diamond corp. 's prestigious paris jewellery store near the champs-elysee be storm by as many as four robber on thursday afternoon .
armed robber steal gem worth 85 million euro -lrb- 74 million pound -rrb- from luxury jeweller in the heart of paris , during a raid describe by french media on friday as the most lucrative heist in france 's history .
french police say armed robber clean out a high-end jewelry store yesterday in paris , news organization report .
three or four robber burst into the store on ritzy avenue montaigne near the champs-elysee late thursday afternoon and steal watch , ring and necklace .
four armed robber -- two dress as woman -- make off with $ 137-million of diamond and jewel from a famed paris store .
paris hit by 2 mn - euro jewelry heist .
four man ram they car into a upmarket jewelry store in central paris on monday , smash the shop window and make off with a two - million - euro -lrb- 2 . 6 - million -rrb- booty , a police source say .
the heist near the upscale place vendome be the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robbery in the southern resort of canne .
the police source , who wish to remain anonymous , say the man drive a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hour of the morning and grab jewelry and luxury watch worth a estimate two million euro .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escape in another car .
forensic policeman be currently go through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first district of paris , which be home to numerous jewelry shop .
at the end of july , a armed man carry out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in canne , make off with jewelry worth 103 million euro in one of the world biggest ever heist .
paris have also be the scene of high - profile robbery .
in december 2008 , three man empty almost all of the stock of gem from the harry winston jewelry store .
in 2009 , police say they have recover 80 percent of the haul .
armed robber in drag carry out one of the biggest jewel heist in history , snatch p74million of diamond ring , necklace and luxury watch from a boutique in paris .
two million euro jewellery heist in central paris .
thief pull off a two million - euro jewellery heist in central paris on monday morning after smash they car through the store front window .
12 : 48pm bst 09 sep 2013 .
four man ram they car into the casty store near paris chic place vendme in the latest in a spate of high - profile robbery in france -- most on the riviera .
a police source say the man drive a large four - by - four car into the store at around 4 . 30am and grab jewellery and luxury watch worth a estimate two million euro -lrb- # . 7 million -rrb- .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escape in another car .
the entire robbery be over in a matter of minute .
forensic team be examine the crime scene on rue de castiglione in paris first arrondissement , home to numerous jewellery shop .
they be absolutely not afraid of anything , '' grard bnzat , the store insurer , tell france info .
it become almost routine and yet everyone know what need to be do to be protect . '' .
armed robber steal diamond value at 85 million euro -lrb- $ 108 million -rrb- from the paris branch of jeweler harry winston , the city prosecutor ' office say .
thief in 2 . 6 million smash - and - grab raid on paris jewelry store .
a smash - and - grab on a high end paris store see four robber make off with jewelry and watch value at over 2 . 6 million early monday .
at around 4 : 30 a . m . local time -lrb- 11 . 30 p . m . et -rrb- the thief ram a suv into the front of the casty store , near the prestigious place vendome , a well - known square in the center of the french capital that be home to a number of jeweler and high - end store .
after scoop up jewelry and watch estimate to be worth 2 million euro -lrb- 2 . 6 million -rrb- the thief reverse they car out of the store and set fire to it before make off in another vehicle , le monde report .
the raid come little over a month after a mask bandit make off with a 136m worth of diamond and jewel from the carlton intercontinental hotel in canne on the glamorous french riviera , in possibly the world '' s biggest heist .
a lone robber enter through a french door at the side of the building on the famed la croisette seafront , scoop up the loot and then jump out of another window .
despite a huge police investigation , the audacious culprit remain at large .
thief also target the annual canne film festival , steal almost 2 million of jewelry from the safe in the hotel room of a american jeweler work for chopard , one of switzerland '' s most famous diamond merchant .
day later a 2 . 5 million necklace be lift by a crook at a movie industry party at the even more exclusive resort of cap d '' antibe , near the italian border .
armed robber - some disguise as woman - snatch $ 108 million worth of diamond ring , necklace and luxury watch from a harry winston boutique on a posh paris avenue in one of the largest jewel heist in history , official say friday .
9 september 2013 last update at 14 : 39 gmt .
france jewel theft : robber ram 4x4 into paris shop .
french police be investigate a daring jewellery robbery in paris - the latest in a series of high - profile theft in france this summer .
in the early hour of monday , thief ram a 4x4 vehicle through the window of a upmarket jewellery store near the prestigious place vendome .
they make off with 2m euro -lrb- # . 7m ; 2 . 6m -rrb- in gem and watch .
in july , a mask jewel thief steal 88m worth of precious stone from the carlton hotel in canne .
after monday robbery , the thief set fire to the 4x4 vehicle in a adjacent side street and make off in a second car .
many of the most famous name in jewellery have they flagship store in the place vendome , and this be a further embarrassment to the french authority who have see a spate of robbery in recent week , say the bbc christian fraser in paris .
inevitably , the finger will again be point at the pink panther gang , a loosely align network of criminal who be believe to have carry out 300 similar robbery across the world since 1999 , we correspondent say .
the international police agency interpol have recently begin co - ordinate its effort to track down the gang member , many of they from the former yugoslavia .
in 2007 , the gang drive two car through the window of a jewellery store in dubai , and in less than a minute have escape with 11m euro of jewellery .
armed thief have carry out another brazen and meticulously plan robbery of the harry winston store in central paris , make off with a estimate $ 102 million in jewelry .
ram - raider hit paris jewellery store for 2m .
publish : 09 sep 2013 11 : 25 gmt : 00 .
update : 09 sep 2013 11 : 25 gmt : 00 .
ram - raider plough they vehicle into a upmarket jewellery boutique near place vendme in central paris on monday in a dramatic dawn robbery , make off with 2 million worth of loot .
four man ram they car into a upmarket jewellery store in central paris on monday , smash the shop window and make off with a 2 million -lrb- 2 . 6 - million -rrb- booty , a police source say .
the heist near the upscale place vendme be the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robbery in the southern resort of canne .
the police source , who wish to remain anonymous , say the man drive a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hour of the morning and grab jewellery and luxury watch worth a estimate 2 million .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escape in another car .
forensic policeman be currently go through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first arrondissement of paris , which be home to numerous jewellery shop .
paris also witness another dramatic robbery on sunday night when thief arm with kalashnikov storm a subsidiary of the france rail operator sncf in the capital 15th arrondissement .
accord to report , the robber escape with around 60 , 000 from the company which be in charge of manage restaurant car on the tgv train .
at the end of july , a armed man carry out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in canne , make off with jewellery worth 103 million in one of the world biggest ever heist .
paris have also be the scene of high - profile robbery .
in december 2008 , three man empty almost all of the stock of gem from the harry winston jewellery store .
in 2009 , police say they have recover 80 percent of the haul .
a savvy band of jewel thief , arm with gun and some pose as woman , have strike in the heart of the city 's golden triangle of luxury shop , steal more than e85 million worth of diamond , ring and watch from a posh harry winston boutique .
paris : jewellery steal in casty shop raid .
11 : 39am uk , monday 09 september 2013 .
four man smash they car into a jewellery store before flee in a different vehicle in the latest high - profile heist in france .
jewellery and watch worth # . 7m have be steal during a heist in a upmarket central paris shop .
four man drive a 4x4 through the front window of the store on rue de castiglione , before make off with the jewellery and watch .
they then set fire to the vehicle before flee in another car .
forensic policeman be examine the casty store in the central first district of the capital , home to numerous jewellery shop .
the heist near place vendome be the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robbery in the southern resort of canne .
at the end of july , a armed man carry out a robbery at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in canne , make off with jewellery worth 88m in one of the world biggest ever heist .
and last month thief make off with 35 , 000 of jewellery after crack two safe at the luxury grand hotel du cap in saint - jean - cap - ferrat , near nice .
in may , thief steal 910 , 000 worth of jewellery from a employee of swiss firm chopard that be due to be loan to film star during the canne film festival and a second theft see a diamond necklace worth # . 2m steal .
paris have also be the scene of high - profile robbery .
in december 2008 , three man empty almost the entire stock of gem from the harry winston jewellery store .
police say they have recover 80 of the haul in 2009 .
a gang of four thief -- two of they disguise as woman -- on thursday steal nearly all the jewel on display at the harry winston boutique just off the champs-elysee avenue , which attract a wealthy international clientele .
france hit by another jewellery heist .
9 september 2013 11 : 55 .
four man ram they car into a up - market jewellery store in central paris today , smash the shop window and make off with a 2 million -lrb- r26 million -rrb- booty , a police source say .
the heist near the upscale place vendome be the latest to hit france after a spate of high - profile robbery in the southern resort of canne .
the police source , who wish to remain anonymous , say the man drive a large 4 car into the store in the early hour of the morning , and grab jewellery and luxury watch worth a estimate 2 million .
they then set fire to the vehicle and escape in another car .
forensic policeman be currently go through the site of the robbery at the casty store on rue de castiglione in the central first district of paris , which be home to numerous jewellery shop .
at the end of july , a armed man carry out a brazen robbery in broad daylight at a diamond exhibition at the carlton hotel in canne , make off with jewellery worth 103 million in one of the world '' s biggest heist .
paris have also be the scene of high - profile robbery .
in december 2008 , three man empty almost all of the stock of gem from the harry winston jewellery store .
in 2009 , police say they have recover 80 of the haul .
jewellery worth more than $ 160 million have be steal from a paris boutique in what be believe to be france 's biggest jewellery theft .
paris store hit by 2 . 6 million jewelry heist .
september 9 , 2013 .
four man ram they car into a upmarket jewelry store in central paris on monday , smash the shop window and steal 2 . 6 million -lrb- two million euro -rrb- in jewelry , accord to afp .
the heist near place vendome be the latest to hit france after a string of high - profile robbery in canne .
a police source report that the man drive a large four - by - four car into the store in the early hour of the morning , grab jewelry and luxury watch before set fire to the vehicle and escape in another car .
daring diamond heist in downtown paris .
at 5:30 p.m . , four armed robber , some reportedly dress in drag , enter the store on the chic avenue montaigne , off the champ elysee in central paris , a heavily patrol area less than 330 foot from a police station .
crook at 2 . 6 million heist on paris jewelry store .
a smash - and - grab on a high end paris store see four robber make off with jewelry and watch value at over 2 . 6 million early monday .
at around 4 : 30 a . m . local time -lrb- 11 . 30 p . m . et -rrb- the thief ram a suv into the front of the casty store , near the prestigious place vendome , a well - known square in the center of the french capital that be home to a number of jeweler and high - end store .
after scoop up jewelry and watch estimate to be worth 2 million euro -lrb- 2 . 6 million -rrb- the thief reverse they car out of the store and set fire to it before make off in another vehicle , le monde report .
the raid come little over a month after a mask bandit make off with a 136m worth of diamond and jewel from the carlton intercontinental hotel in canne on the glamorous french riviera , in possibly the world '' s biggest heist .
a lone robber enter through a french door at the side of the building on the famed la croisette seafront , scoop up the loot and then jump out of another window .
despite a huge police investigation , the audacious culprit remain at large .
thief also target the annual canne film festival , steal almost 2 million of jewelry from the safe in the hotel room of a american jeweler work for chopard , one of switzerland '' s most famous diamond merchant .
day later a 2 . 5 million necklace be lift by a crook at a movie industry party at the even more exclusive resort of cap d '' antibe , near the italian border .
new orlean saint rb reggie bush 's season over .
the associated press report new orlean saint run back reggie bush -lrb- knee -rrb- will miss the rest of the season .
bush undergo a mri earlier this week , and head coach sean payton decide the team would place bush on injured reserve .
it have be a disappointing campaign for bush ; .
the 2006 second-overall pick play in just 10 game this year , rush for 404 yard and two touchdown while catch 52 pass for 440 yard and four score .
however , he miss time because of arthroscopic knee surgery earlier this year and apparently a knee sprain will halt he season .
in bush 's absence this year , run back pierre thoma have establish himself as a legitimate no. 1 back .
he have 189 rush yard and two touchdown in he last two game .
he have also catch eight pass for 66 yard and two touchdown .
of he 11 touchdown this year , eight have come since the start of week 11 .
he have 548 rush yard , 28 reception and 258 receive yard this season .
run back deuce mcallister could see a few more touch with bush out , yet even when bush be out earlier this year , mcallister only once receive more than eight utilization in a game ; the team use he 22 time in week 8 mcallister have just 317 rush yard on the season and only 54 since the team 's week 9 bye .
however , he do have three of he four touchdown in that stretch .
fullback mike karney have receive five utilization in the last two week , though most be on short-yardage situation .
fantasy owner carry bush have almost certainly miss out on thoma ; .
if for some reason he be available , pick he up immediately .
mcallister be a last-ditch flex option as the saint face the detroit lion in week 16 , but play he be a risk give thoma ' versatility .
karney be not a viable fantasy back .
saint place pierre thoma on injured reserve ; sign joique bell off eagle practice squad .
wednesday , 05 january 2011 .
the injury woe continue wednesday for the defend super bowl champion new orlean saint , who have place veteran run back pierre thoma on season - end reserve .
thoma spot on the 53 - man roster be quickly fill with the signing of undrafted rookie run back joique bell -lrb- 5 - 11 , 220 -rrb- , who come to the black and gold from the philadelphia eagle practice squad .
thoma be the fifth saint run back to go on ir this season , the second in two day , the third in less than a month .
on tuesday , team official place undrafted rookie run back chri ivory on ir with a lisfranc injury to he left foot .
on dec . 8 , veteran run back ladell bett go on ir with a neck injury .
bell -lrb- 5 - 11 , 220 -rrb- play at wayne state .
the saint -lrb- 11 - 5 -rrb- face the nfc west - champion seattle seahawk -lrb- 7 - 9 -rrb- in a wildcard game at 3 : 30 p . m . saturday at qwest field .
the new orlean saint place reggie bush on the injured list on wednesday , end the national football league season for the star run back .
the 23-year-old bush will miss the team 's final two regular season game against detroit and carolina with a sprained left knee .
bush finish he third season in new orlean with just 404 yard and two touchdown on 106 carry .
bush suffer a left knee injury against carolina on october 19 .
he appear to be on the mend , but he sprain the knee in last thursday 's 27-24 overtime loss at chicago and be limit to only 30 yard on six carry .
saint pierre thoma place on ir .
update : january 6 , 2011 , 11 : 34 be et .
the defend champion saint will have try to repeat without they top two power run back .
pierre thoma , one of the star of last season super bowl run , be place on injured reserve on wednesday because of he injured ankle .
the saint make that move only one day after place lead rusher chris ivory on injured reserve because of a left foot injury that occur during sunday regular season finale .
that tough , '' quarterback draw bree say of the loss of both run back this week .
you not deny that just because of the physical presence they bring and obviously they productivity . '' .
when the saint -lrb- 11 - 5 -rrb- open the playoff in seattle -lrb- 7 - 9 -rrb- on saturday , the only remain healthy run back from they regular season roster will be reggie bush and julius jone .
naturally , be go to have to step up , '' bush say .
bush miss eight game with a fracture in he lower right leg .
he have rush for only 150 yard and have not score a rush touchdown this season , but start to look stronger on sunday against tampa bay , when he have 70 yard rush on just nine carry and have 55 yard receive on five catch .
jone have 193 yard and no touchdown on the ground .
the only other run back on the roster be fourth - year pro deshawn wynn , who be sign on tuesday but also be with the saint during the preseason , and rookie joique bell , who be sign wednesday from the philadelphia eagle practice squad .
bree say he remain optimistic that the versatility of the saint offense and the way they spread the ball among so many player will allow they to weather such injury perhaps better than most team .
in the end , you just work to the strength of the guy that you have .
you not worry about what you not have , just what you have , '' bree say .
while you would love to have all of the guy and all of the element that they bring , i feel like reggie bush can do some pretty special stuff and julius jone can do some pretty special stuff .
deshawn wynn , when call upon , can do the job .
you realize that the passing game may have to pick up some slack at time depend on how the game plan change by have those guy in . '' .
bush , who return from he broken right fibula on thanksgiving , say he have be feel stronger lately and be look forward to the chance to be the primary run back .
however , he stress that the success of the offense would hinge on many more factor than he .
it about a team effort .
it not just about one person , '' bush say .
we have some mistake that we make as a team throughout the season on offense , defense and special team that have get to clean up .
the run back position be just one small piece of the puzzle . '' .
yet as the playoff approach , the saint have be optimistic they offense would be better with thoma , who score memorable touchdown in both the nfc title game and super bowl last season .
plague by a left ankle injury that limit he to only six game this season , thomas start to look effective again in a 17 - 14 victory at atlanta in week 16 , when he have 102 yard from scrimmage and a touchdown .
however , he aggravate the injury in practice last week and sit out the regular season finale .
the setback he have be substantial and be at that point in the season where you want to do what best , and yet you want to be mindful of the injury the player have , '' saint coach sean payton say .
so i think on all front - - doctor , trainer , the player and ourselves - - we feel that this be the best move . '' .
thomas initially be hurt in a overtime loss to atlanta in week 3 , then miss nine game before come back for three late - season game .
he finish with 269 yard and two touchdown rush and catch 29 pass for 201 yard .
late this season , thoma also have handle kickoff return after courtney roby be place on injured reserve with a head injury .
payton say receiver devery henderson and robert meachem be get most of the practice time in that area this week .
ivory injury be a lisfranc , which be a fracture and dislocation in the mid - foot , and will require surgery , payton say .
after join the saint as a undrafted rookie out of division ii tiffin , he rush for 716 yard in 12 game and have a team - lead five rush td .
the new orlean saint place reggie bush on injured reserve today , officially end he third nfl season .
it be the second straight year that bush fail to make it to the last week of the season .
it be also the second straight year that bush take step backward after a strong rookie season .
bush , who miss several game after arthroscopic knee surgery earlier this season , wrap up the year with 404 yard rush and 440 yard receive .
he score six touchdown on offense and add three more on punt return .
there be nothing wrong with nine touchdown in 10 game , but bush 's inability to stay on the field have make he something less than the saint expect with the second overall pick in the 2006 draft .
leon washington of the jet , a fourth-rounder that year , have turn in similar production as bush this season -lrb- in more game -rrb- but cost he team much less money .
make matter worse be the fact that the relationship between bush and coach sean payton seem to be deteriorate .
bush express unhappiness about be yank from last week 's loss to the bear , two week after payton make a similar move against the buc .
whatever he shortcoming , bush could still play a important role in the supercharged saint offense .
unless he lose payton 's faith once and for all , of course .
reggie bush be do , for the season at least .
bush sprain the medial collateral ligament in he left knee in the saint ' game against the chicago bear thursday night .
he originally injure it against the carolina panther earlier this season and need surgery on it .
the saint still have to play the winless detroit lion and the playoff-bound panther .
head coach sean payton say bush 's knee do not need surgery this time , just a little r and r , he also say that if the team be still in playoff contention , then he would not have place bush on ir .
saint ' spokesman greg bensel confirm wednesday owner tom benson undergo surgery december 10 to remove a cancerous growth on he left kidney bensel say in a statement release by the team .
benson be under the primary care of he personal physician and saint team doctor , john r. amoss , who say he expect a full recovery .
'' it be diagnose as early-stage renal cell cancer , and the prognosis for this type of cancer remove at this stage be excellent , '' say amoss .
'' we anticipate a full and complete recovery , and he will not need any radiation or chemotherapy . '' .
the 81-year old be at home , and will miss the team 's trip to detroit , but will be back at the office next week sometime .
pierre thoma be head to injured reserve .
post on january 5 , 2011 , 3 : 37 pm edt .
pierre thoma and chris ivory be out .
deshawn wynn and joique bell be in .
suddenly , the no . 5 saint don '' t look as quite as big a threat to make a repeat trip to the super bowl .
one day after chris ivory be surprisingly lose for the season , the saint place thoma on injured reserve .
the team '' s best run back also sit out in week 17 .
coach sean payton say thoma suffer a setback in practice last week .
we '' ve be toy with the idea of pick the saint to make it back to the super bowl .
they '' ve turn the ball over too much , but they defense be a lot better than people think .
this news make it harder .
it '' be go to be a lot harder for the new orlean offense to stay balanced with reggie bush and julius jone carry the load .
wynn and bell be add to the roster in the last two day , but figure to be reserve .
bush place on injured reserve .
the saint place run back reggie bush on injured reserve end he season .
the decision be make after bush meet with dr. jame andrews this past week .
bush injure he left knee on oct. 19 and have arthroscopic surgery to fix a tear meniscus and miss four game .
he be bother by the knee last week against the bear and do not play in the second half .
pierre thoma will get most of the carry and be a excellent play against the lion this week .
likely foe : saint suffer major injury , thoma to ir .
4 : 31 pm january 5 , 2011 .
the saint have place run back pierre thoma on injured reserve .
here '' be the story from my buddy mike tripplett over at the new orlean time - picayune .
in the saint 17 - 14 victory over the falcon on dec . 27 , thoma rush for 63 yard and score on a 2 - yard touchdown in the second quarter .
he join the team '' s top rusher , chris ivory , on the injured reserve .
it look like reggie bush will have to carry the rush load .
they also recently sign rookie joique bell -lrb- wayne state -rrb- from the philadelphia eagle '' practice squad .
they also sign veteran deshawn wynn -lrb- florida -rrb- on tuesday to serve as a backup behind bush and julius jone .
if the saint beat seattle and philadelphia beat green bay , the falcon will face the saint at 8 p . m . saturday , jan . 15 at the georgia dome .
saint could shut down reggie bush ?
the biloxi sun herald suggest that reggie bush -lrb- knee -rrb- could be shut down for the remainder of the saint ' season .
beat writer larry holder put this in a one liner , say bush '' could sit out the final two game . '' .
it may be speculative , or holder have reasoning behind it that he do not give .
we will know more about bush wednesday , when the saint practice and hopefully reveal the result of he mri .
pierre thoma out for playoff after saint place he on ir .
post on january 5 , 2011 at 3 : 39 pm .
update wednesday , jan 5 at 5 : 53 pm .
the saint place run back pierre thoma on ir wednesday , the second time in as many day the team have place one of its primary run back on the list .
new orlean pick up deshawn wynn on monday after put chris ivory on injured reserve and on wednesday , sign joique bell to replace thoma .
'' with pierre , last week during practice he have a setback , '' head coach sean payton say .
'' we get to that point in discuss it with he where it be at .
he come back and be very effective for a couple of game , particular the atl game .
but the setback be substantial .
'' we '' be at the time of year where you want to do what '' be best .
the doctor , trainer and ourselves , we think it be the best move . '' .
new orlean play at seattle on saturday at 3 : 30 p . m . in the wild card round of the nfc playoff .
while thoma go on ir , four other do not practice .
defensive tackle anthony hargrove -lrb- knee -rrb- , tight end jimmy graham -lrb- ankle -rrb- , linebacker danny clark -lrb- hamstring -rrb- and defensive back malcolm jenkin -lrb- knee -rrb- all sit out .
tight end jeremy shockey -lrb- groin -rrb- and david thoma -lrb- knee -rrb- both be limit while receiver marque colston -lrb- knee -rrb- and defensive end alex brown -lrb- shoulder -rrb- both be full .
thoma come into 2010 as the team '' s lead return rusher from the saint '' super bowl win season .
he have 793 yard and six touchdown on 147 carry and catch 39 pass for 302 yard and another two touchdown .
but he miss 10 total game this season and have only 269 yard and two touchdown on 83 carry and another 201 yard on 29 catch .
the saint have have a season - long struggle with the run back corps , date back to training camp when lynell hamilton be lose for the season when he tear up he knee in practice with new england .
less than three week later , p . j . hill be place on ir with a tear triceps that he injure in a preseason game against houston .
reggie bush be lose for half the season after break he right fibula in new orlean '' sept . 20 win over san francisco .
a week later , pierre thoma go out for nearly nine week when he severely sprain he ankle late in new orlean '' loss to atlanta .
but while bush have return and play in the past six game , thoma be back for only three game before be list on the inactive list for the regular season ender against tampa bay .
he tweak the same left ankle that bother he originally the friday before the game against the buc .
bell -lrb- 5 - foot - 11 , 220 pound -rrb- have spend time with the indianapolis colt , philadelphia and buffalo this season , but have no carry .
he play at wayne state , where he finish with 6 , 728 yard rush with 96 touchdown in addition to 918 yard and four score receive .
saint place bush on ir .
the new orlean saint have place run back reggie bush on injured reserve because of a sprain knee .
bush be hurt last thursday in a 27-24 loss to chicago .
the saint be 7-7 and be eliminate from playoff contention over the weekend .
the third-year star from southern california be the team 's second-leading rusher and receiver this season , despite miss four game to recover from arthroscopic surgery for a knee injury suffer in a october 19 game against carolina .
bush will finish the year with 404 yard rush and a pair of touchdown , as well as 52 catch for 440 yard and four score .
he also return three punt for touchdown .
the saint sign cornerback michael lehan to fill the vacant roster spot .
injured saint rb reggie bush to miss last 2 game .
run back reggie bush will miss the final two game of the new orlean saint ' season .
the knee be examine over the weekend and coach sean payton say at practice on wednesday that the team decide to put bush on injured reserve .
payton say the saint , who be eliminate from playoff contention over the weekend , would not have place bush on injured reserve if they be still fight to reach the postseason .
he say bush 's injury do not require surgery , just rest and rehabilitation .
bush rush for 404 yard and two touchdown , catch 52 pass for 440 yard and four td , and score three touchdown on punt runback this season .
saint shut down bush .
run back to miss game against lion and panther .
reggie bush 's injury-hit season have come to a early end due to a sprained left knee .
the run back have be place on injured reserve by the new orlean saint , mean he will miss the final two game against detroit and carolina .
the 23-year-old finish he third season with the franchise with 404 yard rush on 106 carry , score two touchdown on the ground .
bush pick up the problem in the saint ' overtime loss to the chicago bear in week 15 , a result that end they hope of reach the play-off .
with nothing to play for but pride in the final two week , new orlean have decide to rest he for the remainder of the season .
it be not the first time this year bush have have a problem with he left knee .
he miss four game after have arthroscopic surgery back in october .
the saint sign cornerback michael lehan , who have be with the miami dolphin , to fill the roster spot , despite be short-handed at run back .
already without deuce mcallister , coach sean payton will now rely on pierre thoma and mike bell , who have have only six carry this season , have sign for the team in week 12 .
the tampa bay buccaneer have also lose a player to injury , a fractured right forearm sideline jermaine phillip for the remainder of the season .
the strong safety , who rank fifth on the team with 86 tackle , be injure during the 13-10 overtime loss to the atlanta falcon last sunday .
phillip have already miss three game earlier this season with a fractured left forearm .
the buc will have to do without he in they bid to reach the play-off .
tampa have sign defensive end patrick chukwurah and linebacker rod wilson to bolster they defence , while release run back noah herron .
jan 05 , 2011 .
saint place rb pierre thoma on injured reserve .
one day after place lead rusher chris ivory on injured reserve , the saint have lose another rb for the season .
coach sean payton announce wednesday that pierre thoma be place on ir .
thoma suffer through a injury - plague 2010 season , miss 10 of the saint 16 game with a troublesome left ankle sprain .
he return to play in week 14 - 16 , but miss new orlean season - finale after tweaking the injury .
ivory make the most of he opportunity with thoma and reggie bush -lrb- broken tibia -rrb- missing time with injury .
the undrafted rookie average 5 . 2 yard a carry and finish with a team - high 716 yard rush and five touchdown .
the saint re - sign rb deshawn wynn to take ivory place on the roster on tuesday .
after put thoma on ir wednesday , new orlean replace he by sign rb joique bell off the eagle practice squad .
thomas join a grow tally of shelved saint rb .
ladell bett go on ir in early december and the team lose lynell hamilton and p . j . hill to season - end injury during the preseason .
bush , veteran julius jone and wynn be expect to carry the load as the saint try to defend they title .
new orlean begin its postseason saturday at 4 : 30 p . m . et with a wild - card round game in seattle against the nfc west champion seahawk .
saint place rb bush on injured reserve .
the injury-plagued season of new orlean saint run back reggie bush be over .
the saint place bush on the injured reserve list wednesday with a sprained left knee , mean he will miss the team 's final two game against detroit and carolina .
however , give he limited effectiveness last week , the saint decide to shut he down for the remainder of the season .
the former southern california star finish he third season in new orlean with just 404 yard and two touchdown on 106 carry .
bush suffer a left knee injury against carolina on october 19 and miss the next four game follow arthroscopic surgery .
he return to action against tampa bay on october 30 and score a touchdown the follow week against atlanta .
bush appear to be on the mend , but he sprain the knee in last thursday 's 27-24 overtime loss at chicago and be limit to only 30 yard on six carry .
on saturday , new orlean coach sean payton indicate that bush would not return to the lineup until further undergo a further evaluation .
however , give he limited effectiveness last week , the saint decide to shut he down for the remainder of the season .
bush 's absence leave the saint further shorthanded in the backfield as they be now down to pierre thoma and mike bell , who have have only six carry this season after sign with new orlean in week 12 .
to take bush 's roster spot , the saint sign cornerback michael lehan , who have be with the miami dolphin .
in case you have any doubt whether or not pierre thoma -lrb- left -rrb- would get more carry than reggie bush , you can now have full faith in thoma .
after sprain he knee last week at chicago , bush have be place on the injured reserve list end he season .
hello , mr. thoma owner have be worry that thoma ' carry would be affect by bush 's return , but those worry be all for naught .
with bush completely out of the picture , thomas be the lone back and could capitalize in a big way in he two remain game .
remember , thoma be still play for a contract .
the saint take on the 0-14 lion , and it appear the saint will march into motown and hand they no. 15 .
the lion have the league 's worst rush defense , and team do not need to throw a lot because offens be able to run wild .
good news for pierre owner .
thoma be a elite rb go forward , and those of you lucky enough to nab he should reap the benefit make sure he be in you lineup for championship week .
since week 11 , thoma have eight touchdown on 498 rush yard and 176 receive yard .
not bad for a late waiver-wire guy , huh ?
as far as bush be concern , the saint be err on the side of caution regard the injury .
with the playoff out of the picture , there be no need to worsen the injury .
he will be a top ppr run back in 2009 .
pierre thoma place on injured reserve by new orlean saint .
jan 5 , 2011 .
pierre thoma be place on injured reserve by the new orlean saint on wednesday , mean he not play in the 2011 nfl playoff .
lose thoma be bad enough , but it be compile with the fact that they just lose chris ivory on tuesday .
this mean they will be miss two of they best player in the rush game , and it could weaken the attack that the saint have on offense even further .
coach sean payton announce it himself on wednesday , reveal through the new orlean saint twitter account that thoma have be place on ir .
it be a very shocking revelation in the roster move the saint have be make and any saint fan that come into the postseason extremely confident about they team should be a tad worry about what the saint can do now .
they still have reggie bush and julius jone to head the running game , so at least the saint be leave empty handed .
last season it be thoma that lead the saint in rush , post 793 total yard in 14 game .
he have be hobble this year , and that be the main reason that ivory end up see so much playing time .
ivory rush for 716 yard this year , lead the saint in rush , and give they a great option as they try to survive without thoma and bush behind quarterback draw bree on offense .
we report tuesday how ivory be do for the year , and it raise the chance of seattle pull off a upset on saturday .
the seattle vs . new orlean game will be the first one on wild card weekend , with kickoff schedule for 1 : 30 p . m . pst .
seattle be the big underdog in this game , even though it be the team host the game .
get to play in front of the home crowd and go up against a bang - up saint team could be exactly what the seahawk need to pull a upset , but they will need quarterback matt hasselbeck to come up huge as well .
hasselbeck have more than 300 pass yard against the saint back in week 11 , so maybe seattle have a chance after all .
as for the saint on offense , they still have super bowl mvp draw bree take the snap .
he be have a bit of a down year by he standard , especially in the category of interception , but this be still a guy who could throw for 400 yard on any give night .
a lot will be ask of he on saturday , but he have be in pressure - packed game quite a few time at this point in he career .
the saint have place bush -lrb- knee -rrb- on injured reserve , the baton rouge advocate report .
bush tweak he left knee last thursday and coach sean payton say the saint decide to put the run back on ir after determine that he would be unavailable for the team 's final two game .
the positive here be that bush 's injury should not impact he 2009 availability .
pierre thoma figure to see the bulk of the saint ' carry the next couple of week , as a result .
january 5 , 2011 at 12 : 19 pm .
saint rb pierre thoma place on injured reserve .
the new orlean saint place pierre thoma on injured reserve wednesday because of a ankle injury .
thoma miss nine game this season because of the injury , include the regular - season finale .
he be the second run back in two day to be place on injured reserve .
chris ivory be place on the list tuesday .
that mean former seahawk julius jone and reggie bush will likely get most of the workload .
have just get to get the next guy up and make sure be prepare , '' new orlean coach sean payton say in a conference call with seattle - area reporter .
so be the next guy in line jone ?
i would assume he take the bulk of the carry , '' payton say .
i be in dallas when we draft he so be familiar with the player .
he fill in in a real good role for we .
i think he smart .
he someone that typically do the right thing , and the other thing be , he healthy .
so from a repetition standpoint , he get x number of carry and play , but not too many .
so what most important now on a short week for both team be be rest both physically and mentally and prepare to play in this game , and i know he will be . '' .
the new orlean saint place run back reggie bush on injured reserve wednesday , end the former first-round pick season two game short of the year 's finale with a sprain medial collateral ligament in he left knee .
bush miss four game earlier this season after undergo arthroscopic surgery to repair the meniscus on he left knee and it appear it be injure in the saint ' thursday night loss to chicago .
'' right now , for he , it be go to be rehab and rest with it , '' saint head coach sean payton say .
'' with two week remain in the season , we think that be the best way to go with he injury and allow we acquire another player . '' .
payton add , '' he would not be put on ir if we have more than two week or three week leave in the season .
the news be fairly good , which be encouraging . '' .
bush be unavailable for comment wednesday and will see dr. jame andrew in birmingham , ala. , for further evaluation friday .
he miss game against san diego , atlanta , kansas city and green bay midway through this season after get injure in new orlean ' 30-7 oct. 19 loss at carolina .
payton pull bush in the second half of the loss to the bear and follow the game , bush express frustration with the move .
saint quarterback draw bree understand .
'' he be frustrate he be not the only one , '' bree say .
'' there be a lot of guy who get frustrate when maybe you want to play and you be not or you know you be not 100 percent healthy and it be affect you .
that frustrate you . '' .
'' he be use to be the guy , '' bree continue .
'' he be use to be the one everyone count on in the clutch situation , all the way from high school to college .
that be what be in he makeup .
that be what be in he blood .
he be a extremely competitive guy . '' .
the former usc run back and heisman trophy winner also miss the final four game of the 2007 season after tear the posterior cruciate ligament in he left knee .
but payton say the injury this year be not relate to he injury a year ago and he be not concern with the long-term prognosis of the third-year pro .
'' we be encourage with the overall outlook and not have surgery it appear right now , '' payton say .
bush be name a alternate to the nfc pro bowl team on tuesday .
prior to get injure , bush be have a standout year .
through 14 game in the 2008 season , bush have 404 yard and two touchdown on 106 carry , average 3.8 yard per run .
he also have 440 yard and four touchdown receive and have return three punt for touchdown .
'' i have a long visit with he -lrb- tuesday -rrb- , '' payton say .
'' just disappointment in the way the season start certainly it be encourage .
as we monitor he touch and we look at how many time he get the ball , be it in the run game and passing game , we will find that right balance . '' .
saint pierre thoma to injured reserve and the rest of injury report .
january 5 , 2011 .
not a mere day ago , the new orlean saint place they rookie run back sensation chri ivory on injured reserve -lrb- ir -rrb- thus end he season as the team head intpo the playoff .
now the black and gold will have to go without yet another run back .
pierre thoma be officially place on ir wednesday with a ankle injury meaning that the team will be without both of they lead back for the duration of the season .
reman on the team be reggie bush and julius jone .
on tuesday , the saint re - sign run back deshawn wynn who play a few game on special team earlier in the season .
wednesday afternoon , the saint sign rookie joique bell from the philadelphia eagle practice squad .
before the season even begin , the saint have lose run back lynell hamilton and pj hill to injury for the entire year .
some good news be that wide receiver marque colston return to practice fully .
the rest of the injury report for wednesday be as follow .
do not practice .
s malcolm jenkin -lrb- knee -rrb- .
te jimmy graham -lrb- ankle -rrb- .
dt anthony hargrove -lrb- knee -rrb- .
lb danny clark -lrb- hamstring -rrb- .
limit .
te jeremy shockey -lrb- groin -rrb- .
te david thoma -lrb- knee -rrb- .
reggie bush 's season have come to a end .
the saint place bush on the injured reserve list wednesday after he suffer a knee sprain in the team 's week 15 loss at chicago .
saint put bush on i.r .
new orlean sign cb michael lehan , who spend five game with the dolphin this season , to take the vacant roster spot .
bush play in 10 game , but have to sit out four straight after he undergo knee surgery to repair a tear meniscus in october .
he rush 106 time for 404 yard and two touchdown and also have 52 catch for 440 yard and four td he also have three punt return for score .
post at 3 : 21 pm et , 01 / 5 / 2011 .
new orlean saint place pierre thoma on injured reserve list .
the new orlean saint have place run back pierre thoma on the injured reserve list a day after they lead rusher , chris ivory , be shut down for the season .
with a playoff game loom saturday on what probably will be a wet field in a tough stadium in seattle , reggie bush and julius jone will step up to replace the saint top two run back .
i not know that this be a rally cry , '' coach sean payton say of the injury -lrb- via jeff duncan of the time - picayune -rrb- .
have go through this before .
it not uncommon .
it more the norm . '' .
thoma have a setback with a ankle injury in practice last week and , payton say , everyone feel this be the best move . '' .
the saint sign deshawn wynn on tuesday and joique bell today off the philadelphia eagle practice squad .
sport news in brief from around the world .
new orlean saint run back reggie bush have be place on injured reserve and will miss the final two game of the regular season , the team say wednesday .
bush hurt he left knee against the carolina panther on oct. 19 and , after miss four game during rehabilitation , have struggle to regain he form .
the saint -lrb- 7-7 -rrb- will visit the detroit lion -lrb- 0-14 -rrb- this sunday .
golf - u.s. master champion trevor immelman have become the fourth south african to be award honorary life membership of the european tour , and the 32nd overall .
'' i actually have goosebump just think about this , '' say the 29-year-old on the eve of the south african open in paarl .
'' i start my professional career on the tour .
'' to become a honorary life member ... be something extremely special i will cherish for the rest of my life , '' add immelman who follow in the footstep of compatriot gary player , ernie el and retief goosen .
pierre thoma place on injured reserve .
jan 5 , 2011 -- 4 : 35 pm .
pierre thoma , the saint lead rusher in 2009 , be put on injured reserve , the team announce wednesday .
thoma have a ankle injury , and he be the second run back in two day to be place on ir as new orlean prepare for its wild - card round playoff game at seattle .
the saint place rookie chris ivory on injured reserve tuesday - - another huge blow , because he be the club lead rusher this season .
that leave reggie bush , julius jone and the newly - sign joique bell , who be add off the eagle practice squad when thoma be place on ir , to carry the load in the saint backfield .
the saint do not generally run the ball much anyway - - new orlean finish 30th in the nfl in rush attempt this season , with 380 .
they do , however , use they run back frequently out of the backfield in the short passing game , and thoma absence will hurt there .
ivory , who have make stride with ball security , show off he power this season , run through arm tackle and over lighter linebacker en route to 716 yard rush .
thoma be hurt in the saint game vs . atlanta game in september and miss 10 game , include last sunday loss to the tampa bay buccaneer .
he have just 269 yard rush .
new orlean have never use reggie bush as a feature - type back , but as more of a third - down , all - purpose run back .
it be likely he will get 10 to 12 carry on saturday .
the saint be not likely to expose he to more than that , not with the depth be in such critical shape .
there be good news for new orlean : wide receiver marque colston be a full participant in practice on wednesday .
he do not play last sunday after undergo arthroscopic knee surgery last tuesday .
safety malcolm jenkin -lrb- knee -rrb- , tight end jimmy graham -lrb- ankle -rrb- , defensive tackle anthony hargrove -lrb- knee -rrb- and linebacker danny clark -lrb- hamstring -rrb- do not participate in team drill wednesday .
it be not certain what they status be for saturday .
tight end jeremy shockey -lrb- groin -rrb- and tight end david thoma -lrb- knee -rrb- be limit in wednesday practice , which be encouraging because of graham ankle injury .
a mafia boss in palermo hang himself in jail after hour before he be arrest in a police 's raid .
vincent the chin gigante die in prison .
publish : dec . 19 , 2005 at 9 : 44 pm .
vincent the chin gigante , the new york mob boss whose crazy act earn he the nickname the oddfather , '' die in prison monday .
he be 77 .
the former driver for late mafia boss vito genovese , gigante rise to the head of the crime family that bear genovese name , newsday report .
he be the last of the old - school boss , '' say ex - nypd organize crime detective joe coffey monday .
bureau of prison spokesman al quintero say gigante die early monday of apparent heart disease at the u . s . medical center for federal prisoner in springfield , mo .
it be the same prison where mobster john gottus , anthony fat tony salerno and anthony tony duck corallo also die , the newspaper say .
gigante be serve a 12 - year sentence for a racketeering conspiracy conviction in brooklyn in 1997 and be due to be release in june 2010 .
he become a legend for pretend he be mentally ill as a way of escape prosecution .
gigante would wander around greenwich village in he bathrobe , mumble to himself .
in april 2003 , gigante plead guilty to charge he feign mental illness in the 1990s , add three year to he sentence .
suspect key mafia boss vie for top costra nostra slot find hang dead in palermo jail cell .
a key suspect mafia boss arrest tuesday in a sicilian police raid have be find dead , hang in he pagliarelli prison cell in in palermo .
mob boss oddfather die in prison at 77 .
publish : tuesday , dec . 20 2005 12 : 00 a . m . mst .
mob boss vincent the chin gigante , the powerful mafioso who avoid jail for decade by wander the street in a ratty bathrobe and slipper , feign mental illness , die monday in prison .
he be 77 .
the head of the genovese crime family , who have suffer from heart disease , die at the federal prison in springfield , mo . , say prison spokesman al quintero .
it be the same place where rival mob boss john gottus die of cancer in 2002 at age 61 .
gigante death also be confirm by christine monaco , a spokeswoman for the fbi , the organization that work for year to put he behind bar .
dub the oddfather for he bizarre behavior , gigante have score a lengthy string of victory over prosecutor , but it end with a july 1997 racketeering conviction .
he be sentence to 12 year in prison .
a alleged mafia boss who be catch on wiretap purportedly discuss cosa nostra 's new hierarchy hang himself in a sicilian jail hour after he arrest , police say wednesday .
a suspect mafia boss arrest in a high-profile police raid have be find dead in he cell , italian police source have say .
gaetano lo presti , who have be previously convict of mob-related crime before he re-arrest on tuesday , be find dead in pagliarelli prison in the sicilian capital of palermo .
police say lo presti have hang himself late on tuesday night .
gaetano lo presti , one of 99 allege sicilian mafia member seize on tuesday , have apparently hang himself with he belt in prison .
lo presti , 52 , head of mafia clan in the porta nuova area of palermo , be find dead in pagliarelli prison only hour after he arrest .
vincent gigante , mafia leader who feign insanity , die at 77 .
publish : december 19 , 2005 .
vincent gigante , who feign mental illness for decade to camouflage he position as one of the nation most influential and dangerous mafia leader , die today in federal prison in springfield , mo . , official tell the associated press .
he be 77 .
mr . gigante die while serve a 12 - year sentence impose in 1997 after he be convict of racketeering and conspire to kill other mobster .
official at the prison medical center where he die do not provide the cause of death but note that he suffer from heart disease .
mr . gigante , whose nickname be chin , '' painstakingly maintain the fiction that he be incompetent until april 2003 , when he appear before judge i . leo glasser in federal district court in brooklyn and plead guilty to obstruction of justice .
specifically , he acknowledge run a con on the legal system that delay he racketeering trial from 1990 to 1997 while he sanity be be examine .
as part of the plea , three more year be add to he prison term , but he avoid a lengthy trial on the other charge , which amount to a accusation - long deny or sidestep by mr . gigante - that he head the genovese organize crime family .
he lawyer , benjamin brafman , offer the explanation that i think you get to a point in life - i think everyone do - where you become too old and too sick and too tired to fight . '' .
for mr . gigante , the guise that he adopt in the mid - 1960 - behavior that win he the nickname oddfather - take considerable effort to maintain .
he could often be see shuffling around he greenwich village neighborhood in pajamas , bathrobe and slipper , mumble to himself and appear to be a disturbed but harmless person .
law - enforcement agent , prosecutor and mafia defector describe he behavior as a stage performance calculate to evade prosecution for he activity as head of a crime family that under he leadership become the wealthiest and most powerful in the nation .
base on information from informer and electronic eavesdropping on gangster , f . b . i . and new york city law - enforcement official rank mr . gigante as the pre - eminent mafia leader in the early and mid - 1990 , and prosecutor identify he as the dominant force in the early 1990 inside the commission , the mafia ruling body , which resolve significant dispute among the five major family in the new york region .
he reach , law - enforcement official say , extend as well to philadelphia and new england , where he exercise veto power over the appointment of mob boss in those area .
salvatore gravano , the no . 2 figure in the gambino crime family before he defect in 1991 , testify that even mr . gigante archrival , john gottus , grudgingly acknowledge mr . gigante craftiness .
he crazy like a fox , '' mr . gravano quote mr . gottus as say of mr . gigante after a summit meeting of new york city mob leader in 1988 .
mr . gottus be the boss of the gambino family until he own imprisonment force he to relinquish undisputed control in the late 1990 .
he , too , die in a prison hospital , of cancer in june 2002 .
federal bureau of investigation agent and federal and state prosecutor regard mr . gigante as the most elusive mafia leader of he era and the most difficult to bring to trial .
he be probably the most clever organize - crime figure i have ever see , '' say john s . pritchard 3rd , a former f . b . i . supervisor , who lead a squad that investigate the genovese family in the 1980 .
dispute the government contention , mr . gigante lawyer and relative maintain that he have be mentally disabled since the late 1960 , with a below - normal i . q . of 69 to 72 .
he defender steadfastly deny that he be associate with the mafia , assert that it be ludicrous to believe that someone so mentally subpar be capable of head a major crime organization .
the rev . loui gigante , a roman catholic priest , former new york city councilman and a builder of low - income housing in the bronx , characterize the relentless investigation of he older brother as persecution by agent and prosecutor who be bias against italian - american .
organize - crime expert and mob turncoat say that mr . gigante be apparently willing to humiliate himself publicly as the price for escape the long prison sentence that be be mete out to other mafia leader .
accord to federal and state investigator , each of the family 200 make or induct soldier and about 1 , 000 associate - the name for other who voluntarily cooperate in illegal activity but who be not swear member - be obligate to funnel part of they loot to mr . gigante , as much as 100 million a year in the early 1990 .
the family fortune , the expert say , flow largely from a vast network of bookmaking and loanshark ring and from extortion of construction company in the new york city area seek labor peace or sweetheart contract from carpenter , teamster and laborer union that be dominate by mr . gigante lieutenant .
mob deserter in the mid - 1990 testify in criminal and civil case that the genovese gang other lucrative enterprise include the control of cartel that rig bid and inflate price in the private garbage - haul industry of new york city and westchester county ; kickback from shipping and trucking company on the new jersey waterfront in exchange for labor peace ; protection payoff from merchant at the fulton fish market ; and the control of many union job at the jacob k . javit convention center in manhattan .
mr . gigante influence even extend over the san gennaro street festival in little italy until a 1995 crackdown by new york city official and federal prosecutor result in allegation that the genovese family operate gamble game at the festival , extort payoff from vender and pocket thousand of dollar donate to a neighborhood church .
in the 1980 , after the authority say mr . gigante have assume undisputed command of the genovese family , he conduct he activity in a starkly unorthodox fashion for a mafia leader .
most day , in the early evening , mr . gigante , a hulk man who be about six foot tall and weigh 200 pound , would emerge from he mother walkup apartment building on sullivan street in greenwich village .
sometimes dress in a bathrobe and pajamas and sometimes wear a windbreaker and shabby trousers and always accompany by one or two bodyguard , he gingerly cross the street to the triangle civic improvement association , a dingy storefront club that serve as he headquarters .
inside , he play pinochle and hold whisper conversation with man who agent say be he trust confederate .
after midnight , accord to f . b . i . surveillance report , he would be drive to a townhouse near park avenue at east 77th street , that be own by olympia esposito , who be characterize by mr . gigante lawyer as he common - law wife and the mother of three of he eight child , vincent , lucia and carmella esposito .
f . b . i . agent , who in 1986 observe the townhouse from a nearby rooftop post , say that soon after arrive , mr . gigante would change into more elegant clothes , carry on conversation with associate , and read or watch television before retire .
about 9 or 10 the next morning , he would reappear in he shabby downtown clothes and be drive back to sullivan street or a nearby apartment occupy by he relative at 505 laguardia place .
it be hard to understand what enjoyment he get out of be a mob boss , '' say ronald goldstock , the former director of the new york state organize crime task force .
he only pleasure appear to be the pure power he exercise . '' .
vincent gigante -lrb- pronounced ji - gant - tee -rrb- be bear on march 29 , 1928 , in new york city and grow up on the same street in greenwich village where he would spend most of he adult life .
he be one of five son of salvatore gigante , a watchmaker , and yolanda gigante , a seamstress , both of whom have immigrate from naple .
he mother usually address he as cincenzo , '' a diminutive of vincente , and he boyhood friend shorten that into he lifelong nickname , chin . '' .
a lackadaisical student , mr . gigante graduate from p . s . 3 , a elementary school in greenwich village and drop out of textile high school in manhattan in the ninth grade .
police detective say that as a teen - ager , he become a prot of vito genovese , who be a potent mafia leader in the united state and in italy from the 1930 to the 1960 and whose name still describe the organize - crime group he head until he death in 1969 .
the gang be found in the 1930 by one of the nation most notorious criminal , charle -lrb- lucky -rrb- luciano , who be deport to italy and who die in 1962 .
mr . genovese be believe to have endear himself to the gigante when vincent be a boy with a loan to pay for surgery need by mr . gigante .
between age 17 and 25 , mr . gigante be arrest seven time on a array of charge : receive steal goods , possession of a unlicensed handgun , auto theft , arson and bookmaking .
most be dismiss or resolve by fine .
he only jail sentence in that period be 60 day for a gambling conviction .
when arrest in he early 20 , he list he occupation as a tailor .
but as a strapping youth with quick fist , he be better know as a prize fighter .
mr . gigante , from age 16 to 19 , fight as a light heavyweight in club around town , win 21 of 25 light - heavyweight bout , accord to nat fleischer ring record book .
club boxer in those day fight four - and six - round contest in neighborhood arena , usually get a percentage of the ticket they themselves sell .
one of mr . gigante manager be a greenwich village neighbor , thoma -lrb- tommy ryan -rrb- ebolus , who later become the boss of the genovese family .
former new york city detective who be assign to organize - crime intelligence unit say that mr . gigante earn he mafia spur as a enforcer in the 1950 .
but he prominence in the underworld surge in 1957 , when mr . genovese wrest control of a mob family from frank costello , who have be a close friend of lucky luciano and meyer lansky and be one of the best - know underworld figure in america .
mr . costello retire abruptly as a boss after a gunman graze he scalp with a bullet in the vestibule of he apartment building on central park west .
a doorman identify the 29 - year - old mr . gigante as the shooter , but mr . costello testify that he be unable to recognize he assailant and mr . gigante be acquit in 1958 on charge of attempt murder .
a year later , he be convict with mr . genovese in manhattan on federal charge of heroin trafficking .
mr . gigante , who list he profession as the superintendent of a tenement on bleecker street , be sentence to seven year in prison .
the sentencing judge say he would have impose a longer sentence but be sway by a flood of letter from resident of greenwich village and little italy attesting to mr . gigante good character and he work on behalf of juvenile .
he be parole after five year and detective say that soon afterward he be promote from soldier to the rank of capo , or captain , oversee a group of mafia gangster know as a crew , in greenwich village .
although he headquarters be in lower manhattan and he spend he night farther uptown , mr . gigante have a home in old tappan , n . j . , where he live with he wife , the former olympia grippa , and they three daughter and two son .
they be yolanda fyfe , roseanne d'cola and rita gigante , and salvatore and andrew .
in 1969 , he be indict in new jersey on a charge of conspiracy to bribe the entire five - member old tappan police force to alert he to surveillance operation by law enforcement agency .
the accusation be drop after mr . gigante lawyer present report from psychiatrist that he be mentally unfit to stand trial .
mafia informer and defector say that mr . gigante gain control of the genovese family in a peaceful transition in the early 1980 when the group act boss , philip lombardo , step down because of ill health , and mr . gigante main rival , anthony salerno , be imprison for life on racketeering charge .
mr . salerno die in federal prison in 1992 .
as a new godfather , mr . gigante quickly impose extraordinary security measure .
genovese soldier and associate be forbid to utter he name or nickname in conversation or telephone call .
when reference to he have to be make , capo and soldier would silently point to they chin or form the letter c with they finger .
mr . gigante be indict in 1990 with 14 other on federal charge in brooklyn that they have conspire to rig bid and extort payoff from contractor on multimillion - dollar contract with the new york city housing authority to install window .
at he arraignment , he appear in court in he familiar pajamas and bathrobe and a peaked cap .
because of defense contention that he be mentally and physically impaired , he case be sever from the other defendant and legal battle ensue for seven year over he competence to stand trial .
a supersede indictment in 1993 bring more serious accusation against he .
mr . gigante be charge with be the head of the genovese family and sanction the murder of six mobster and conspire to kill three other , include john gottus , the boss of the gambino family .
mr . gigante , the indictment assert , want mr . gotti eliminate because he have violate mafia protocol by arrange the assassination of the previous gambino boss , paul castellano , without seek mr . gigante approval .
the evidence in both indictment stem mainly from deserter from the genovese and other mob family who enter the government witness protection program .
at sanity hearing in march 1996 , mr . gravano of the gambino family , and alphonse d'arco , the former act boss of another new york mafia organization , the lucchese crime family , testify that mr . gigante be lucid during top - level mafia meeting and that he have acknowledge to other gangster that he eccentric behavior be a pretense .
mr . gigante lawyer elicit testimony and report from psychiatrist and psychologist that from 1969 to 1995 , he have be confine 28 time in hospital for treatment of hallucination and that he suffer from dementia root in organic brain damage . '' .
in august 1996 , judge eugene h . nickerson of federal district court in brooklyn rule that mr . gigante be mentally competent to stand trial on murder and racketeering charge .
the judge find that at least until 1991 , mr . gigante have engage in a elaborate deception with the help of he relative to deceive psychiatrist about he condition .
before the trial begin , mr . gigante , who have open - heart surgery in 1988 , have another cardiac operation in december 1996 , put he fitness to stand trial in doubt once again .
mr . gigante have plead not guilty and have be free for year on 1 million bond .
during the monthlong trial in 1997 , a gaunt - look mr . gigante sit in a wheelchair , look blankly into space as witness testify and lawyer argue .
he do not testify .
after three day of deliberation , the jury on july 25 , 1997 , convict he on charge of run multimillion - dollar racket as the genovese family chief and of conspire unsuccessfully in the late 1980 to murder mr . gottus and a genovese family defector .
but he be acquit of order three other gangland slaying and the jury be deadlock on accusation that he order four other murder .
impose a sentence of 12 year - instead of a possible maximum of 27 year - and a 1 . 25 million fine , judge jack b . weinstein of federal district court in brooklyn reflect in december 1997 on mr . gigante career .
he be a shadow of he former self , '' the judge say , a old man finally bring to bay in he decline year after decade of vicious criminal tyranny . '' .
one of the key suspect mafia boss arrest yesterday in one of sicily 's biggest police operation have hang himself in he prison cell , police say .
gaetano lo presti , the '' godfather '' of the palermo district of porta nuova , be find dead late last night in pagliarelli prison in the sicilian capital of palermo .
post 12 / 19 / 2005 3 : 36 pm .
vincent the chin gigante , last of mafia giant , die .
mob boss vincent the chin gigante , the powerful mafioso who avoid jail for decade by wander the street in a ratty bathrobe and slipper , feign mental illness , die monday in prison .
he be 77 .
the head of the genovese crime family , who have suffer from heart disease , die at the federal prison in springfield , mo . , say prison spokesman al quintero .
it be the same place where rival mob boss john gottus die of cancer in 2002 at age 61 .
gigante death also be confirm by christine monaco , a spokeswoman for the fbi , the organization that work for year to put he behind bar .
dub the oddfather for he bizarre behavior , gigante have score a lengthy string of victory over prosecutor , but it end with a july 1997 racketeering conviction .
he be sentence to 12 year in prison .
after a quarter - century of public craziness , he finally admit he insanity ruse at a april 2003 federal hearing in which he calmly plead guilty to obstruction of justice .
that bring he another three - year sentence .
at that hearing , he chat amiably with he son , shake hand with defense lawyer and say god bless you to u . s . district judge i . leo glasser .
for the man describe by the new york time magazine as the last great mafioso of the century , '' he admission be the final act in a 50 - year career link the era of old - time gangster and the modern - day mafia of gottus .
at the height of he power , gigante empire stretch from little italy to the dock of miami .
mob expert call he a traditional boss who settle issue by whatever mean - verbal or violent - be require .
deny he be a gangster , gigante would wander the street of the greenwich village neighborhood in nightclothe , mutter incoherently .
relative , include a brother be who a roman catholic priest , insist gigante suffer from paranoid schizophrenia , dementia and alzheimer disease .
authority charge it be a brazen act to avoid the law - although it be until 1997 that a jury agree .
the trial be a spectacle , with gigante in a wheelchair , mumble silently , seemingly oblivious to the proceedings .
he lawyer claim they could not communicate with he in any meaningful way . '' .
none of that sway juror , who convict gigante of racketeering , extortion and plot the murder - never carry out - of ex - mob associate peter savino .
bear in the bronx in 1928 , one of five son of italian immigrant parent , gigante become a small - time boxer and drift into the crime family found in 1931 by legendary gangster charle lucky luciano .
in 1957 , gigante be the hitman in a botched attempt to assassinate then - boss frank costello .
after refuse to name he attacker in court , the shake costello retire , make gigante patron , vito genovese , kingpin of the family that still bear he name .
over time , gigante , a stocky figure with a pugilist face and 1940s pompadour , prove better at beat the law than gottus , the so - call teflon don who win two acquittal before tape and turncoat send he to prison for life .
before 1997 , gigante have serve only a five - year heroin rap in 1959 .
a alleged mafia boss who be arrest in a massive sweep by italian police hang himself in a prison cell within hour of be detain .
police have launch a investigation into how gaetano lo presti be able to commit suicide .
he be find dead in a cell in palermo 's pagliarelli prison late on tuesday night , just hour after be pick up during raid by 1,200 police back up by helicopter and sniffer dog .
ex - mafia boss vincent gigante die in prison .
he be know as the oddfather for fake mental illness to beat rap .
update 12 / 19 / 2005 2 : 48 : 40 pm et .
mob boss vincent the chin gigante , the powerful mafioso who avoid jail for decade by wander the street in a ratty bathrobe and slipper , feign mental illness , die monday in prison , official say .
he be 77 .
gigante , who have suffer from heart disease , die at the federal prison in springfield , mo . , say prison spokesman al quintero .
gigante , head of the genovese crime family , have score a lengthy string of victory over prosecutor , but it end with a july 1997 racketeering conviction .
after nearly a quarter - century of public craziness , he finally admit he insanity ruse at a april 2003 federal hearing in which the man dub the oddfather by tabloid newspaper calmly plead guilty to obstruction of justice .
at the height of he power , gigante empire stretch from little italy to the dock of miami .
deny he be a gangster , gigante would wander the street of the greenwich village neighborhood in nightclothe , mutter incoherently .
relative , include a brother be who a roman catholic priest , insist gigante suffer from paranoid schizophrenia , dementia and alzheimer disease .
authority charge it be a brazen act to avoid the law - although it be until 1997 that a jury agree , and it take another six year for gigante to concede he subterfuge .
bear in the bronx in 1928 , one of five son of italian immigrant parent , gigante become a small - time boxer and drift into the crime family found in 1931 by legendary gangster charle lucky luciano .
in 1957 , gigante be the hitman in a botched attempt to assassinate then - boss frank costello .
after refuse to name he attacker in court , the shake costello retire , make gigante patron , vito genovese , kingpin of the family that still bear he name .
over time , gigante prove better at beat the law than john gottus , the so - call teflon don who win two acquittal before tape and turncoat send he to prison for life .
gottus die in 2002 at age 61 .
before 1997 , gigante have serve only a five - year heroin rap in 1959 .
the alleged mafia boss of a palermo neighborhood hang himself in jail , hour after he be arrest in a blitz against cosa nostra , police in sicily say wednesday .
carabinieri paramilitary police in palermo say gaetano lo presti , 52 , hang himself in he cell in a palermo jail tuesday evening , hour after he be arrest in the raid .
last update : tuesday , 20 december 2005 , 10 : 39 gmt .
we mafia godfather gigante die .
one of the most famous mafia godfather in the we , vincent the chin gigante , who spend much of he life avoid prison , have die in jail , aged 77 .
he be , accord to the new york time , the last great mafioso of the 20th century .
for year , gigante evade prison by concoct a elaborate mental illness .
he routinely wander the street of new york manhattan , shuffling along in slipper and a tattered bathrobe , mutter incoherently .
this bizarre behaviour earn he the title the oddfather , but also help to keep he out of jail , as a series of jury be convince that gigante be indeed insane .
but in 1997 , he be finally convict of racketeering , and in april 2003 he admit to a court that he behaviour have be a ruse to stay out of prison .
heart disease .
he die in a medical prison in springfield , missouri , on monday morning , say a spokesman for the facility .
the cause of he death be unknown , although he have have heart disease , the spokesman say .
he death be confirm by the fbi , whose agent work for decade to bring he to justice .
he be bear in the bronx in 1928 to italian immigrant , and give the nickname chin - short for vincenzo .
the ex - boxer become part of the powerful genovese mafia family , eventually win the patronage of ambitious mobster vito genovese .
gigante carry out a attempt hit on the boss of the family , frank costello , in 1957 .
the frightened costello refuse to name he attacker in court , and leave genovese to take over the mob .
mumble quietly .
when the fbi close in on gigante , he feign mental illness to escape conviction for police - bribery in 1970 .
from then on , he act become more elaborate .
federal agent once find he stand naked in a shower , hold a umbrella .
relative - even include he brother , a roman catholic priest - insist he suffer from paranoid schizophrenia , dementia and alzheimer disease .
at he trial in 1997 , for conspiracy to murder other organised crime figure , racketeering , and extortion , he sit in a wheelchair , mumble quietly , apparently unaware of what be go on .
it take the testimony of six turncoat mobster , and fbi tape recording in which the so - call oddfather be hear converse in a perfectly normal way , to convince the jury of he guilt .
he be jail for 12 year , but it take until 2003 for the chin to admit he sham .
a suspect mafia leader have hang himself in prison in sicily hour after be arrest , italian police say .
police say lo presti , allege boss of a sicilian mafia clan in a district of palermo , hang himself in he cell .
vincent the chin gigante die while in prison custody on december 19 , 2005 .
a suspect mafia boss arrest tuesday in a high-profile police swoop have hang himself in he prison cell , police source say wednesday .
gaetano lo presti , who be already convict of mob-related crime prior to he latest arrest , be find dead late last night in pagliarelli prison in the sicilian capital of palermo .
vincent chin gigante , 77 , crime boss .
december 20 , 2005 .
vincent gigante , who die yesterday in federal prison at 77 , be the genovese crime family boss who for three decade feigned lunacy to evade prosecution for crime range from loan shark to murder to bribe the entire police force of old tappan , n . j .
he be know as chin , '' and he moniker be often invoke by denizen of the mafia underworld with a hand - to - chin gesture rather than a word , the better to foil police bug .
to the writer of headline he be sometimes daffy don or the oddfather for he habit of walk the street of the west village clothe in a bathrobe , striped pyjamas , and slipper , while mutter incoherently .
federal prosecutor claim it be a act , but it be not until 2003 , after more than three decade of fake mental illness , that gigante admit in court that he do it to avoid prosecution .
he admission come as part of a plea deal on behalf of he son , andrew , also convict of mob - related activity .
for two decade , gigante be head of the genovese crime family , which emerge as the largest of the five new york mafia clan after decade of concerted federal prosecution decimate its rival .
it be estimate that there be some 300 member of the family under he control .
the genovese racket include guarantee labor peace to firm in construction , garbage removal , and trucking ; extort payoff from company do business at the port of newark and elizabeth ; various racket at the fulton fish market and the jacob k . javit convention center ; contract for window - installation in city housing , and the old standby of bookmaking , loan - sharking , and narcotic .
it be narcotic that first send gigante to prison , in 1959 , when he receive a five - year sentence after be catch conspire to smuggle heroin from abroad .
also sentence in the case be the man who give he name to the crime family , vito genovese .
genovese run he organization from behind bar while serve a 15 - year sentence .
it be a similar ruse - maintain control of the family while incarcerate by transmit order through he son , andrew - that be gigante downfall .
gigante be bear in the bronx to parent who be immigrant from naple , italy .
he father be a jewelry engraver , and he mother be a seamstress .
bear vincenzo , he be call chin for short , and he prominent chin probably help the name stick .
he put it to good use as a teenage boxer , win 21 of 25 club fight .
gigante be arrest several time from when he be 17 to 25 , for possession of a unlicensed handgun , gambling , bookmaking , grand larceny , and arson .
two of he brother , mario and ralph , be also identify as mafia soldier , while another , loui , be a prominent catholic priest as well as a democratic politician in the bronx .
in 1957 gigante be charge with attempt murder in the shooting of frank costello , then the head of what would be call the genovese family .
he be acquit despite the testimony of a doorman who claim to have witness the crime ; costello himself claim not to have see he assailant , despite be shoot at close range from the front .
the shot have only crease he head , '' accord to report at the time .
the prosecutor in the costello case claim that gigante be a young punk on the way up in the underworld who be choose to kill costello to win he spur . '' .
if so , it seem to have work , despite he have miss .
costello retire soon after , and genovese assume control of the family , which have a history go back to lucky luciano .
after serve five year on the 1959 heroin conviction , gigante resume he life of crime .
he first seek psychiatric help in 1966 , while under investigation for bribe new york city police .
in 1970 , he be indict for bribe the entire five - man police force of old tappan , n . j . , a small town in bergen county where he have move .
after he produce evidence that he be under psychiatric care at st . vincent hospital in westchester , the court rule that he be mentally incompetent to testify in the case .
it be a pattern gigante would repeat in the come decade , include commit himself several time when prosecution threaten .
gigante immediate family support he , especially loui , the glad - handing , cigar - smoking priest and builder of low - income housing , who tell reporter he brother have paranoid schizophrenia , dementia , and alzheimer disease .
federal marshal serve he with a subpoena at he mother sullivan street apartment house once find he stand under the shower , fully clothe , hold a umbrella .
vincenzo ?
he be the boss of the toilet ! '' .
he mother tell new york post columnist cindy adam .
gigante , meantime , be consolidate he power within the genovese family .
in the late 1970 , he run a crew in lower manhattan , operate waterfront racket , as well as loan - sharking and gambling in new jersey .
he emerge as head of the genovese family by the early 1980s .
federal prosecutor keep he under observation for decade , and gigante keep up the crazy act with amazing consistency .
he spend much of each day walk around the village in he bed clothes and play card at he triangle civic improvement association on mulberry street .
a sign hang on the wall warning business associate against loose talk : this place be bug . '' .
by the late 1980 , he rarely go to old tappan , prefer to spend he night on the upper east side with he mistress , with whom he have three child .
oddly , both he wife and he mistress be name olympia .
gigante mental illness act allow he to escape trial despite be indict numerous time on charge range from bid rigging and extortion to conspiracy to commit eight murder .
he luck hold until 1997 , when a new york jury find he guilty of a range of charge and sentence he to 12 year in the federal penitentiary .
it may have be a bad omen that the judge in the case , jack b . weinstein , insist that gigante wear a suit rather than a bathrobe to he trial .
at the palma boy social club in east harlem in 1985 , the fbi tape the follow exchange between two genovese family member , anthony fat tony salerno and giuseppe sabato .
salerno : he get to worry if he get pinch , all they year he spend in that -lsb- expletive delete -rsb- asylum .
sabato : that what be say .
salerno : for nothing .
vincent l . gigante .
bear march 29 , 1928 , in the bronx ; die december 19 at the u . s . medical center for federal prisoner in springfield , mo . ; the cause of death be not announce , but he have recently suffer heart problem .
one of the mafia boss and clan member arrest in a major police crackdown have hang himself in he prison cell in palermo .
he suicide appear to be relate to clan feud .
gaetano lo presti , 52 , who have take over control of mafia clan in the porta nuova area of palermo and have previous conviction , be find dead in pagliarelli prison , police say today .
ny mob don vincent chin gigante die in prison .
december 19 , 2005 .
convict mobster vincent chin gigante , famed for wander the street of new york in a tattered bathrobe in a show of insanity , die on monday in federal prison , official say .
consider one of the last of new york old - time mafia don , the reputed head of the genovese family be serve a 12 - year sentence at the u . s . medical center for federal prisoner in springfield , missouri .
he be 77 .
gigante be also nickname the oddfather and the pajama king - reference to he habit of shuffling along the sidewalk in manhattan greenwich village mutter to himself , look disheveled and unshaven in a robe and slipper .
he attorney argue that gigante be mentally ill and incapable of run a crime family ; prosecutor argue he be feign illness to avoid prosecution .
eventually , a jury find gigante guilty in 1997 of conspiracy to murder other organized crime figure , racketeering , extortion and other charge .
the case rely heavily on the testimony of six former mobster who become government informant , include salvatore sammy the bull gravano , whose testimony be critical in the 1992 conviction of the late mobster john gottus .
follow gigante conviction , prosecutor say he continue to run the crime family from prison .
in 2003 , he plead guilty to obstruct justice by mislead doctor about he mental state .
the cause of death be unknown , but gigante have be suffer from heart disease , say prison spokesman al quintero .
a suspect mafia leader commit suicide overnight after be arrest in a major police sweep , police in palermo , sicily , say on wednesday .
he may have be drive to suicide because wiretapped conversation between he and other mafia boss help lead to the police sweep on tuesday in which 89 people be arrest follow a nine-month probe , the ansa news agency report .
vincent the chin gigante die in prison .
edit on mon dec - 19 - 05 03 : 49 pm .
mob boss vincent the chin gigante , the powerful mafioso who avoid jail for decade by wander the street in a ratty bathrobe and slipper , feign mental illness , die monday in prison .
he be 77 .
the head of the genovese crime family , who have suffer from heart disease , die at the federal prison in springfield , mo . , say prison spokesman al quintero .
it be the same place where rival mob boss john gottus die of cancer in 2002 at age 61 .
gigante death also be confirm by christine monaco , a spokeswoman for the fbi , the organization that work for year to put he behind bar .
dub the oddfather for he bizarre behavior , gigante have score a lengthy string of victory over prosecutor , but it end with a july 1997 racketeering conviction .
he be sentence to 12 year in prison .
after a quarter - century of public craziness , he finally admit he insanity ruse at a april 2003 federal hearing in which he calmly plead guilty to obstruction of justice .
that bring he another three - year sentence .
... ... ...
for the man describe by the new york time magazine as the last great mafioso of the century , '' he admission be the final act in a 50 - year career link the era of old - time gangster and the modern - day mafia of gottus .
a mafioso commit suicide hour after he arrest in a police bust of almost 100 people suspect of try to re-establish cosa nostra provincial commission ' .
gaetano lo presti , 52 , hang himself in he cell on tuesday evening after he be believe to have read police wiretap transcript implicate he in the affair .
mafia oddfather , ' vincent chin gigante , die in u . s . prison at 77 .
tuesday , december 20 , 2005 .
vincent the chin gigante , the powerful mob boss who avoid jail for decade by wander the greenwich village street in a ratty bathrobe and slipper as part of a elaborate feigned mental illness , die monday in prison , federal official say .
he be 77 .
gigante die at the u . s . medical center for federal prisoner in springfield , mo . , say prison spokesman al quintero .
the cause of death be not immediately know , but quintero say gigante have a history of heart disease .
dub the oddfather for he bizarre behavior , the former genovese crime family head , a ex - boxer whose lengthy string of victory over prosecutor end with a july 1997 racketeering conviction , finally admit he insanity ruse at a april 2003 court hearing .
after nearly a quarter - century of public craziness , gigante calmly plead guilty to obstruction of justice for he deception .
he then chat amiably with he son , shake hand with defense lawyer and even laugh at one point .
god bless you , '' he tell the judge , offer a broad wave goodbye before leave the brooklyn courtroom .
gigante be jail in the medical ward at the federal prison in springfield - the same facility where rival mob boss john gottus die .
deny he be a gangster , gigante would wander the street of he native greenwich village in nightclothe , mutter incoherently .
relative , include a brother be who a roman catholic priest , insist gigante suffer from paranoid schizophrenia , dementia and alzheimer disease .
authority charge it be a brazen act to avoid the law - although it be until 1997 that a jury agree , and it take another six year for gigante to concede he subterfuge .
at the height of he power , gigante empire stretch from the booth at little italy san gennaro festival to the dock of miami .
the looney tune act serve gigante well - it keep he out of prison for 30 year - but in the end he be the victim of he own crazy act .
he never have a chance to enjoy the fruit of he plunder , and he tell some people that if give the chance , he would do it that way again , '' say jerry capeci , a mafia expert and author of six book on organized crime .
for the man describe by the new york time magazine as the last great mafioso of the century , '' he admission be the final act in a 50 - year career span the era of the old - time , publicity - shy mustache pete and the modern - day mafia of the swaggering gottus .
gigante look the part , a stocky figure with a pugilist face and 1940s brylcreem pompadour .
mob expert call he a traditional boss , trust by other , who settle issue by whatever mean - verbal or violent - be require .
he fall from power be seal in a brooklyn courtroom where a parade of six turncoat mobster , lead by ex - gottus underboss salvatore sammy the bull gravano , describe chin power in the genovese clan and the commission , '' organize crime ruling directorate .
the trial be a spectacle , with gigante in a wheelchair , mumble silently , seemingly oblivious to the proceedings .
he lawyer claim they could not communicate in any meaningful way with a client who do know where he be , or why .
at one point the trial turn into a battle of the wheelchair , '' with testimony from peter chiodo , a 300 - plus - pound mobster who have survive a ganglaand execution only because he fat stop a dozen bullet .
none of that sway juror , who convict gigante of racketeering , extortion and plot the murder - never carry out - of ex - mob associate peter savino .
defendant have be consistently feign insanity for many year and be still do so in a shrewd attempt to avoid punishment for he crime , '' u . s . district judge jack b . weinstein say in sentence gigante to 12 year in prison .
he be a shadow of he former self - a old man finally bring to bay in he decline year after decade of vicious criminal tyranny . '' .
the verdict be a major blow to a mafia already reel from defection and conviction under the federal racketeering statute .
although gigante allegedly run the family from prison , the genovese clan join the city four other mob family in disarray after he be jail .
lawyer michael marinaccio , who lead gigante defense team , say monday that put aside the mental stuff , '' gigante have suffer from a multitude of medical issue relate to the heart , '' and have undergo open heart surgery twice , in 1988 and 1996 .
recently when he complain of breathing difficulty , he family obtain a court order to have he treat at a hospital outside the prison until about two week ago , marinaccio say in a telephone interview .
vincent be very frail , and i have to say the prison medical care be substandard , no matter where he be , '' marinaccio say .
the family be very close , they make regular visit , and i feel especially bad for they , '' he add .
bear in the bronx in 1928 , one of five son of italian immigrant parent , gigante be nickname chin - short for vincenzo - by he mother .
he become a small - time boxer and drift into the crime family found in 1931 by legendary gangster charle lucky luciano .
in 1957 , gigante be the hitman in a botched attempt to assassinate then - boss frank costello .
after refuse to name he attacker in court , the shake costello retire , make gigante patron , vito genovese , kingpin of the family that still bear he name .
over time , gigante prove better at beat the law than gottus , the so - call teflon don who win two acquittal before tape and turncoat send he to prison for life .
prior to 1997 , gigante have serve only a five - year heroin rap in 1959 .
as boss , gigante watchword be secrecy .
a sign at he headquarters warn , not talk .
this place be bug . '' .
he hold commission meeting in he mother apartment house .
fellow mobster , order never to say he name in public , refer to he by stroke they chin .
he also turn he claim of mental illness - first use to escape trial in a 1970 police - bribery case - into a full - time strategy , behave weirdly in public , check into psychiatric treatment clinic whenever the fbi turn up the heat .
there be comic - opera moment : once , agent serve a subpoena find gigante standing naked in the shower , hold a umbrella .
another time , upon spot agent watch he , he fall to the sidewalk and pray .
such maneuver pay off .
in 1985 a federal crackdown on the commission indict 12 top hoodlum - but not gigante , who some expert say be the actual leader .
yet even chin ruse be not always airtight ; some mob crony slip up , and the fbi eventually obtain tape of gigante act normally in private .
later , prison psychologist also say he appear rational at time .
gigante have eight child by he wife and a mistress , both name olympia .
relative , lead by rev . loui gigante , he priest - brother and most ardent defender , fill three row at the 1997 trial .
loui gigante be in court when he brother finally admit to fake he illness .
microsoft release critical patch for ie zero day flaw .
microsoft -lrb- nsdq : msft -rrb- issue a out-of-band emergency patch wednesday for a zero-day internet explorer vulnerability that have open the door for hacker to install malware on susceptible computer without any user intervention .
the flaw , which be give the highest severity rating of critical , affect all version of microsoft 's ie web browser .
specifically , microsoft 's ie update affect version of window 2000 for ie 5.01 : xp , xp professional , server 2003 for ie 6 ; and xp , server 2003 , vista , server 2008 for ie 7 .
the vulnerability be report after the release of window ie 8 beta 2 , but microsoft still recommend in its advisory that user apply the patch .
the ie security problem be the result of a fundamental flaw in the browser 's datum binding function , which ultimately leave a hole in the memory space that can be access by remote hacker .
internet explorer can then quit unexpectedly while in a exploitable state .
unlike other exploit , user have only to visit a malicious site infuse with trojan or other malware in order to become infected .
hacker can also entice victim to visit a specially craft site , usually via some kind of phishing or social engineering scheme , or place infected banner ad on legitimate web site .
once user open a infected web page , malicious downloader be then install on they computer , which be design to record keystroke and steal password , credit card number , or other financial information .
the user ' computer could also become part of a botnet , a infected network of compromise computer , operate by a central command and control center .
security researcher first see evidence of attack exploit the ie vulnerability last week , shortly follow microsoft 's '' patch tuesday '' monthly security bulletin release dec. 9 .
since then , researcher have see active exploitation rapidly spread in the wild .
while exact number of victim be difficult to precisely calculate , the number of infected computer could potentially affect hundred of thousand or million of computer , expert say .
'' there be people constantly look at the code , try to find issue like -lrb- the ie vulnerability -rrb- , '' say dave marcus , security research and communication manager for mcafee .
'' it get post to the internet very quickly . '' .
mcafee avert lab researcher report variant of the ie exploit that attempt to infect user via a activex control that store the malicious exploit code , stealthily run in the background of a microsoft word document .
malware be then install on the vulnerable computer once user open up a word document -- all without they knowledge or permission .
'' we have see some pretty clever way of people try to take advantage of this , '' say marcus .
'' it just speak to the fact that they look for clever , very unique way to get malware onto you system . '' .
security expert strongly recommend that user apply microsoft 's latest ie patch as soon as possible , which can be download from the microsoft web site .
september 18th , 2013 , 05 : 31 gmt .
microsoft launch emergency patch for internet explorer .
microsoft have just release a new security update for internet explorer in order to patch a flaw affect all version of the company '' s in - house browser , include ie11 on window 8 . 1 rtm .
while microsoft claim that it have receive report of attack aim at internet explorer 8 and 9 , it appear that the security flaw affect all the other version of the browser .
accord to the company , the issue would allow remote code execution , which mean that a attacker could get access to a unpatched system by direct user to a compromise website .
'' this issue could allow remote code execution if a affected system browse to a website contain malicious content direct towards the specific browser type .
this would typically occur when a attacker compromise the security of trust website regularly frequent , or convince someone to click on a link in a email or instant message , '' the company explain .
the fix it tool release by microsoft can be use for ie6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , and 11 on window xp , vista , 7 , 8 , and 8 . 1 , both preview and rtm . 32 - and 64 - bit version of the operating system be all include in the security advisory .
in addition , the tech giant recommend user to set internet and local intranet security zone setting to '' high '' in order to block activex control and active script in these zone .
'' this will help prevent exploitation but may affect usability ; therefore , trust site should be add to the internet explorer trust site zone to minimize disruption , '' microsoft say .
at the same time , the softie suggest that it would be a good idea to configure internet explorer to prompt before run active scripting or to disable active script completely in the internet and local intranet security zone , just to be sure that everyone be on the safe side and no successful attack be possible .
microsoft release emergency patch for ie .
microsoft on wednesday release a emergency patch to fix a perilous software flaw allow hacker to hijack internet explorer browser and take over computer .
the we software giant say security update ms08-078 address a vulnerability cyber-criminal can exploit to they advantage .
'' microsoft encourage all ie customer to test and deploy this update as soon as possible , '' say microsoft security response communication head christopher budd .
the threat lead microsoft to mobilize security engineering team worldwide to deliver a software cure '' in the unprecedented time of eight day . '' .
accord to researcher at software security firm trend micro , attack base on the vulnerability in the world 's most popular web browser be spread '' like wildfire '' with million of computer already compromise .
microsoft typically release patch for its software on the second tuesday of each month and rush this fix to computer user out-of-cycle be testimony to the severe danger of the threat , accord to trend micro .
'' people should run , not walk , to get it install , '' say trend micro advanced threat researcher paul ferguson .
'' this vulnerability be be actively exploit by cyber-criminal and get worse every day . '' .
the ie software patch will be automatically apply to hundred of million of personal computer due to standard update setting in the machine , accord to microsoft security response alliance director mike reavey .
wednesday morning , business network use ie begin get the critical fix through routine patching process .
reavey say microsoft go into '' emergency response '' mode on december 9 after it first learn of the attack on ie browsers .
a day later , microsoft publish a security advisory that '' list workaround that block all know attack . '' .
'' over the course of the next eight day , this advisory be update five time , add newer workaround and mitigation , '' reavey say .
'' we also continually monitor the threat environment , note when the attack begin to change in nature and scope . '' .
trend micro have identify about 10,000 website that have be infect with malicious software that can be surreptitiously slip into visitor ' unprotected ie browser to take advantage of the flaw .
a major internet portal in taiwan be among the legitimate website unknowingly taint with malicious software aim at ie 's weak spot , accord to ferguson .
hacker can take control of infected computer , steal datum , redirect browser to dubious website , and use machine for devious activity such as attack on other network , accord to security specialist .
'' what make this so insidious be it take advantage of a big gaping hole of ie , which have the largest install base of any browser on the market , '' ferguson say .
ie be use on nearly three-quarter of the world 's computer , accord to industry statistics from november .
reavey say the patch consist of more than 300 distinct update for more than half-a-dozen version of ie in score of language .
analyst rob enderle of enderle group in silicon valley say it be '' amazing '' that microsoft be able to turn out a complex critical fix in a week when such job typically can take a month or longer of intense work .
'' even with that , the release emergency response process be not over , '' reavey say .
'' there be additional support to customer and additional refinement of we product development effort . '' .
trend micro urge ie user to heed precautionary advice from microsoft , or avoid use the browser , until the patch be apply .
the '' exploit '' be similar to one use recently to steal user name , password and other information from people play online game in china , accord to trend micro .
microsoft release security patch for internet explorer .
reuter sep 18 , 2013 , 02 . 16pm ist .
microsoft release a emergency software fix for internet explorer on tuesday after hacker exploit a security flaw in the popular web browser to attack a unknown number of user .
the software maker say on its website it release the software , know as a fix it , '' as a emergency measure to protect customer after learn about extremely limited , target attack that make use of the newly discover bug .
microsoft say the attack take advantage of a undiscovered flaw , or zero day vulnerability in industry parlance .
state - sponsor hacking group be often willing to pay hundred of thousand of dollar for zero - day vulnerability in widely use software such as internet explorer , accord to security expert who track that market .
they typically use they on small number of carefully select , high - value target , to keep such flaw secret .
once microsoft issue a warning about a zero - day bug , other group of hacker involve in massive cyber - crime operation , such as identity theft , rush to reverse - engineer the fix its so they can build computer virus that also exploit the same vulnerability .
security expert say internet explorer user should either immediately install the fix it or stop use the browser until microsoft can put out a update , which will be automatically install through its window update program .
with the fix it out , be sure any attacker who be a bit sophisticated can figure out what the flaw be and implement a similar exploit in they own attack toolkit , '' say wolfgang kandek , chief technology officer with the cybersecurity firm qualy inc .
fix its be piece of software for remediate security flaw that must be download and install on pc .
they be design to protect customer while microsoft prepare official update , automatically deliver via the internet to be install on computer .
kandek say he expect microsoft to push out a update to address the issue within two to three week .
the fix it can be install by click on a link this page on microsoft support site .
microsoft release emergency patch for ie .
microsoft have release a emergency patch to fix a software flaw that allow hacker to get into internet explorer browser and take over computer .
the head of microsoft 's security response team say all user of internet explorer should test and install the update as soon as possible .
expert say without the emergency patch , the flaw could allow criminal to take control of computer and steal user ' password even when they be not download material .
microsoft say less than 1 per cent of australian pc user have be affect by the problem .
microsoft issue emergency patch to curb password-stealing hacker .
microsoft today issue a emergency update to plug a critical security hole present in all version of its internet explorer web browser , a flaw that hacker have be leverage to steal datum from million of window user .
the patch , which microsoft dub ms08-078 , fix a security vulnerability that microsoft say already have be use to attack more than 2 million window user .
as security fix and other member of the tech community have chronicle , attacker have be busy compromise thousand of web site by seed they with code that install password-stealing software on computer system of web site visitor who use internet explorer .
microsoft estimate monday that one in every 500 window user have be expose to site that try to exploit the flaw .
additionally , it say the number of victim be increase at a rate of 50 percent daily .
vulnerability management company ncircle say microsoft 's decision to issue the patch outside of its normal patch tuesday -lrb- second tuesday of each month -rrb- cycle be wise , give the current exploitation of the flaw and because instruction for exploit the flaw be now available online .
'' give the ongoing attack for this bug and because the technical detail have be available to the public for over a week , this be clearly a high risk client side vulnerability that everyone should patch now , '' say andrew storm , director of security for ncircle .
this be a urgent update .
if you use window , apply this patch now .
window user can download the fix at window update , or by enable automatic update .
with web attack increase , microsoft fix ie bug .
security expert say that web surfer should immediately install a new bug-fix for microsoft 's internet explorer browser , release wednesday morning .
the flaw , which be accidentally make public by chinese security researcher just over a week ago , have be use in a grow number of web-based attack over the past few day .
criminal have post attack code that exploit this flaw on thousand of web site so far , accord to rick howard , intelligence director with verisign 's idefense group .
verisign have now see six variant of the attack software , all of which attempt to steal chinese online gaming credentials .
often the attack be launch through a hidden iframe component that be surreptitiously put on a web site .
verisign have even spotted one such iframe attack on a legitimate financial institution 's web site , howard say .
'' the volume of iframe deploy this thing be really high . '' .
the flaw lie in the way internet explorer 's data-binding function work , microsoft say .
when the browser be attack it will crash , corrupt the computer 's memory and allow the criminal to run unauthorized software .
view more related contentview all related article .
because internet explorer be use by about 70 percent of web surfer , this attack code will probably show up in widely use malicious software toolkit '' very shortly , '' howard say .
other security company agree with verisign 's assessment .
'' microsoft 's latest ie out-of-band patch release need to be install right away , '' say shavlik technology in a statement .
'' the number of infected web site be grow at a alarming rate -- even people visit legitimate web site be get hack with this exploit . '' .
the flaw be so serious , in fact , that microsoft take the unusual step of issue its security fix week ahead of schedule .
typically microsoft release security patch just once a month in order to simplify the life of system administrator .
its next set of update be due jan. 13 .
criminal could also launch they attack via e-mail , by send victim maliciously encode html document , although this type of attack have not be report .
microsoft 's patch be for user of ie version 5 and up .
microsoft release patch for critical ie security flaw .
microsoft release a critical security patch on wednesday to plug vulnerability in internet explorer , a move that come amid malicious attacker take advantage of the security flaw .
the patch be design to prevent attacker from download malware onto user ' computer if they visit a malicious web site , or a legitimate web site that have be infect .
this zero-day exploit have be in circulation since the first week of december and potentially could have infect a wide swath of user .
the vulnerability be find in not only ie 7 , microsoft 's latest browser , but also internet explorer 5.01 , internet explorer 6 , and internet explorer 6 service pack 1 .
microsoft release critical internet explorer patch .
the out-of-band security update fix a javascript-related vulnerability that be be actively exploit through hack web site .
microsoft -lrb- nsdq : msft -rrb- have release a out-of-band security update , ms08-078 , to fix a vulnerability in its internet explorer web browser that be be actively exploit .
'' at this time , we be aware only of attack that attempt to use this vulnerability against window internet explorer 7 , '' say christopher budd , microsoft security response communication lead , in a e-mail statement .
'' we investigation of these attack so far have verify that they be not successful against customer who have apply the security update .
ms08-078 have a maximum severity rating of critical for all version of internet explorer . '' .
on the heel of the yahoo deal that fall apart v 2 , comeback ceo jerry yang be skewer by the able hand of web 2.0 summit host john battelle .
paul martino , ceo of aggregate knowledge , talk about the company 's '' online discovery '' tool , which essentially look across hundred of million of web site and recommend content , product , and service to user in real time .
mashmaker allow developer to add a bit of javascript to any page and have that page automatically populate with appropriate widget , make the page more useful for site visitor .
nonetheless , microsoft list internet explorer 5.01 , 6 , and 7 as affect software in its security bulletin .
it also say separately , in the faq section , that internet explorer 8 beta 2 be affect .
the vulnerability can be exploit through javascript code post on malicious web site .
internet explorer user may be redirect to these site through hack legitimate site .
if the malicious code be successful , it silently download malware onto the victim 's computer .
microsoft typically release software patch , refer to as security bulletin , on the second tuesday of every month .
when critical vulnerability emerge and be actively exploit , microsoft often issue a patch as soon as it be ready .
the last such out-of-band patch , microsoft security bulletin ms08-067 , be release on oct. 23 .
it address a vulnerability in window server service that affect all currently support version of window .
that vulnerability allow a attacker to take over affected computer remotely .
when microsoft issue its out-of-band patch in october , it cite the vulnerability 's potential '' wormability '' -- mean the hole could be exploit on a massive scale use self-copying malware -- as a reason for its action .
but ms08-078 be not wormable .
'' that show that the wormability of a vulnerability be no longer a good indicator of the seriousness of a threat and that these web-based threat be now much more dangerous than network worm , '' say roel schouwenberg , senior antivirus researcher for kaspersky lab , america , in a e-mail statement .
indeed , microsoft security researcher estimate that as many as 1 in 500 user of internet explorer could have be expose to malware attempt to exploit the flaw .
'' the browser flaw have be disclose roughly one week ago as a zero-day vulnerability , and active exploit have be around the internet for that timeframe as well , '' qualy cto wolfgang kandek say in a e-mail statement .
'' the workaround provide by microsoft be very technical and quite cumbersome to implement , make it imperative for microsoft to release a fix as quickly as possible . '' .
kandek suggest that microsoft be at a disadvantage in update internet explorer because its browser do not have a built-in update mechanism like other browser maker .
mozilla , for instance , just release firefox 3.05 to firefox user through its auto-update system .
microsoft be urge user of ie to test and deploy this update as soon as possible .
microsoft release emergency patch for web browser .
microsoft be to release a emergency patch yesterday to fix a perilous software flaw allow hacker to hijack internet explorer -lrb- ie -rrb- browser and take over computer .
the we software giant say on tuesday that in response to '' the threat to customer '' it immediately mobilize security engineering team worldwide to deliver a software cure '' in the unprecedented time of eight day . '' .
researcher at software security firm trend micro say attack base on the vulnerability in the world 's most popular web browser be '' spread like wildfire '' with million of computer already compromise .
microsoft typically release patch for its software on the second on tuesday of each month and rush this fix to computer user out-of-cycle be testimony to the severe danger of the threat , accord to trend micro .
'' when the patch be release people should run , not walk , to get it install , '' say trend micro advanced threat researcher paul ferguson .
'' this vulnerability be be actively exploit by cyber-criminal and get worse every day , '' he say .
trend micro have identify about 10,000 web site that have be infect with malicious software that can be surreptitiously slip into visitor ' unprotected ie browser to take advantage of the flaw .
'' what make this so insidious it take advantage of a big gaping hole of ie , which have the largest install base of any browser on the market , '' ferguson say .
ie be use on nearly three-quarter of the world 's computer , industry statistics from last month show .
microsoft 's move come one day after cisco issue a report say army of hijack computer be flood the world with spam as hacker devise slicker way to take over unwitting people 's machine .
virus-infected computer be weave into '' botnet '' use to attack more machine and to send specious sale pitch to e-mail address in low-cost quest to bilk reader out of cash .
'' every year we see threat evolve as criminal discover new way to exploit people , network and the internet , '' cisco chief security researcher patrick peterson say .
this year , botnet be use to inject a array of legitimate web site with a iframe malicious code that reroute visitor to web site that download computer virus into they machine , cisco say .
internet explorer issue fix ' , say microsoft .
microsoft have say that a emergency security update have fix a flaw in internet explorer that leave million of computer vulnerable to hacking and hijack .
the software patch , which be release last night , have close a loophole that have see the computer of at least two million user hack by cyber criminal .
the problem related to a '' zero day '' flaw that trick people into visit a infected website , enable hacker to gain access to online banking password and e-shopping logon detail .
'' microsoft have release a security update for internet explorer that will help protect its customer from malicious attack , '' say the company in a statement .
'' like a vaccine develop to fight a virus , this security update ' will protect computer only if it be install . '' .
computer that be set to automatically update and install software will already be protect by the patch .
those user who manage they own update be advise to download the fix as soon as possible from the microsoft website .
'' when the patch be release , people should run , not walk , to get it install , '' say paul ferguson , a researcher with trend micro .
'' this vulnerability be be actively exploit by cyber criminal and get worse every day . '' .
it be think that the security flaw , which come to light earlier this week , be expose by accident , after a chinese security firm , knowsec , release detail of the loophole believe microsoft have already issue a software fix to resolve it .
however , technology expert have warn that malware author , who write the virus and code that exploit security vulnerability , be already work on way to get around the software update .
'' we be see customise version of the ie 7 exploit with vary degree of obfuscation , '' write mcafee security expert rahul mohanda on the company blog .
'' malware author have be come up with innovative mechanism to leverage this exploit to social engineer the not so tech-savvy internet user . '' .
18 september 2013 last update at 13 : 59 gmt .
microsoft release fix for zero - day ie browser bug .
microsoft have release a temporary patch to fix a zero - day , or previously unknown , vulnerability in its internet explorer -lrb- ie -rrb- web browser .
the software giant say the bug , which relate to the browser memory , could affect all version of ie6 to 10 .
attacker could set up website specifically design to exploit the vulnerability , microsoft say , and then run malicious code on user computer .
target attack direct at ie8 and 9 have already be report , it say .
this be a serious vulnerability potentially affect million of window computer , '' dana tamir , director at security company trusteer , tell the bbc .
hacker be already exploit this so i hope microsoft produce a full patch within a few day , '' she say .
in a blog post , microsoft dustin child advise concerned user to set internet and local security zone setting to high to block activex control and active scripting .
he also recommend change ie setting to prompt user before run active scripting .
but do this may affect usability , he say , so user should add site they trust , and visit often , to the ie trust site zone .
microsoft fix it patch apply only to 32 - bit version of ie .
it be not be roll out automatically and be not intend to be a replacement for scheduled security update , the company say .
this temporary workaround be like apply a band - aid to a wound , '' say ms tamir .
last week , microsoft admit that it have be force to rewrite four of its security update just three day after they have be issue .
customer have report receive repeat demand to install the update even after they have already do so .
microsoft patch ie , but security issue remain .
as usual , the bad guy be ahead in the tug-of-war over security .
microsoft today release a patch for the latest internet explorer -lrb- ie -rrb- browser vulnerability that have be in the news since last week .
however , malware author have already begin push out customize variant of the flaw that the microsoft patch may not address .
the vulnerability , root in ie 's xml parser , let attacker execute code on they victim ' pc .
by saturday , at least 6,000 web site have be infected and the number be grow though ascertain the exact number be difficult .
however , security expert say thing will get much worse , even if user follow microsoft 's -lrb- nasdaq : msft -rrb- advice to install the patch immediately .
currently attack have only target ie 7 , christopher budd , security response communication lead at microsoft , say in a statement .
they have not be successful against system where the patch have be apply , accord to budd .
microsoft be host two webcast to address customer question about the security bulletin .
the first be set for 1 p.m. pdt today and 11 a.m. pdt tomorrow in the u.s. and canada .
the webcast will be available on demand after that .
accord to researcher rahul mohanda on the mcafee -lrb- nyse : mfe -rrb- avert lab blog , malware author have already begin issue customize version of the ie exploit with various degree of stealth .
one of the most prominent technique be where the attacker send victim a microsoft word document by e-mail that contain a embedded activex control trigger when the document be open .
this exploit be list as one of the sysadmin , audit , network , security -lrb- san -rrb- institute 's top 20 security risk in 2007 .
victim of the latest exploit be hit by drive-by injection attack , where they go to a compromise web site that automatically download malicious code onto they web site .
malware author have come up with a new twist on this , dave marcus , security research and communication director at mcafee lab , tell internetnews.com .
they plant a iframe onto a legitimate site and the iframe redirect unsuspecting visitor to the site host the malicious code .
a iframe be a html element that let user embed a html document inside another html document .
the cb -lrb- nyse : cb -rrb- tv network site be hit by a iframe attack on november 11 that see visitor redirect to a server in russia , accord to security company finjan 's mcrc blog on november 27 .
'' we have see a awful lot of site that have be compromise with the iframe on they , '' marcus say .
'' it be a very web 2.0 way of spread malware . '' .
microsoft release out - of - cycle patch for ie flaw .
publish on 18th september 2013 .
microsoft bad september continue to grow worse , with the company be force to issue a out - of - cycle patch for a zero - day vulnerability in its internet explorer web browser .
microsoft september get off to a bad start when the company issue a raft of faulty update as part of its monthly patch tuesday release cycle .
while the issue have now be resolve , the company be force to remove and be - release a total of ten patch - make it the worst patch tuesday in a six - month run that have see only a single month go by without a show - stop fault result in patch be reissue follow customer complaint .
today admission from the company not go to do much to salve its public image , either : microsoft have confirm that a flaw in its internet explorer web browser be be actively exploit in target attack , and consider the issue serious enough to release a out - of - cycle fix ahead of next month patch tuesday .
the update , which be only available for manual installation and will not be publish through window update , be a work - around rather than a true fix for a pretty serious flaw in microsoft mshtml shim component - which have already be target in prior attack at the start of the year .
this issue could allow remote code execution if a affected system browse to a website contain malicious content direct towards the specific browser type , ' explain microsoft dustin child in a alert to the security community .
this would typically occur when a attacker compromise the security of trust website regularly frequent , or convince someone to click on a link in a email or instant message .
run modern version of internet explorer ensure that customer receive the benefit of additional security feature that can help prevent successful attack , ' he add - but while the current target attack be only be point at the outdated internet explorer 8 and internet explorer 9 release , it be think the flaw could exist across all version of ie .
for those who use internet explorer , microsoft advice be to install the out - of - cycle fix - it patch to work around the issue until a proper solution can be find .
the patch apply to all version of internet explorer from ie 6 through to the latest ie 11 , although be only design to resolve the issue with the 32 - bit version - the 64 - bit version , it would seem , be better protect against the vulnerability .
with microsoft recent track record for patch cause problem worse than they solve , however , user would be well advise to test the patch on a virtual machine or similar throw - away system before roll it out on a wider scale .
critical ie patch now available : go get it !
in thursday 's it blogwatch , richi jenning watch blogger watch microsoft 's latest out-of-cycle , critical patch for internet explorer .
not to mention portability , 1980 's style ... .
as it promise -lsb- tuesday -rsb- , microsoft corp. today issue a emergency patch to plug a critical hole in internet explorer -lrb- ie -rrb- that attacker have be increasingly exploit from hack web site .
the patch , describe in microsoft 's security bulletin ms08-078 , fix a flaw in the data-binding function of all available version of the popular browser , include ie5 , ie6 , ie7 and ie8 beta 2 .
microsoft label the bug as '' critical , '' the most serious threat ranking in its four-step score system .
accord to both microsoft and numerous security firm , attack have be mount , particularly since last weekend , when hacker begin hijack legitimate web site and launch exploit against unwary visitor .
in fact , microsoft say it monitor a '' huge increase '' in attack last saturday .
the number of infected web site , many of they legitimate , have grow at '' a alarming '' rate since the vulnerability be release into the wild and people need to do nothing but visit a infected site with a vulnerable browser to be affect .
by friday , microsoft be aware user be become infected at a rate even faster than previous zero-day exploit .
originally porn site seem to be the carrier , but the number of legit site cause infection be skyrocket .
hacker be plant the exploit use well-known sql injection technique .
it be user ' turn to protect themselves by install this emergency patch and all all the other , and fast .
since the bad guy be exploit it before microsoft know it exist , the exploit be term '' zero day '' because that be how much notice microsoft get of the problem .
it be also term a '' drive-by '' exploit since a user could pick up a malware infestation by merely use ie to browse any of thousand of compromise website .
in short , it be really nasty stuff .
brian kreb sound worried .
microsoft estimate monday that one in every 500 window user have be expose to site that try to exploit the flaw .
additionally , it say the number of victim be increase at a rate of 50 percent daily .
this be a urgent update .
if you use window , apply this patch now .
microsoft 's mike reavey grab the mic .
this update will be apply automatically to hundred of million of customer through automatic update over the next few day .
and , for we enterprise customer - with multiple system within they network - this update can be deploy through all standard security update management system include , sccm , sms , wsus , and window update .
this update meet the quality , deployment and application compatibility criterion .
it be a high-quality update , ready for broad release , and we encourage customer to test and deploy this update as quickly as possible .
we be able to share detailed information with we partner in the microsoft active protection program -lrb- mapp -rrb- and microsoft security response alliance -lrb- msra -rrb- , allow protection to be create for over 24 different security partner ' product .
this be further validation of we commitment to community base defense ' and mean customer that ... be not even use microsoft product , be also protect from know attack .
ed oswald be impress by microsoft 's speed .
well , that be quick .
it be pretty bad when security expert be tell you customer to switch .
these be unbiased -lrb- for the most part -rrb- folk , and the typical computer user be go to take they advice seriously .
but tiny dancer ... well , not so much .
eight day be rather shamefully long to have to wait for a potentially devastating vulnerability to be fix .
this be not hanukkah , microsoft , and you be not no maccabee .
hacker exploit critical ie bug ; microsoft promise patch .
ie6 through ie11 harbor vulnerability , but in - the - wild attack limit to ie8 and ie9 .
september 17 , 2013 03 : 16 pm et .
computerworld - microsoft today say that hacker be exploit a critical , but unpatched , vulnerability in internet explorer 8 -lrb- ie8 -rrb- and internet explorer 9 -lrb- ie9 -rrb- , and that its engineer be work on a update to plug the hole .
as it often do , the company downplay the threat .
there be only report of a limited number of target attack specifically direct at internet explorer 8 and 9 , although the issue could potentially affect all support version , '' dustin child , a manager in the trustworthy computing group and its usual spokesman , say in a blog post tuesday morning .
we be actively work to develop a security update to address this issue , '' child add .
accord to child and the security advisory microsoft also publish today , the vulnerability affect all support version of ie , from the 12 - year - old ie6 to the not - yet - officially - release ie11 , the browser that will accompany window 8 . 1 when it ship oct . 18 .
there be no escape this one , '' say andrew storm , director of devop at cloud security vendor cloudpassage , refer to the bug affect all version of microsoft browser .
ie zero - day be never a good thing , especially when they affect every version , '' storm add .
although microsoft advisory do not put it in these term , the vulnerability can be exploit use classic drive - by attack tactic .
that mean hacker need only lure victim run ie to malicious site - - or legitimate website that have previously be compromise and load with attack code - - to hijack they browser and plant malware on they window pc .
until microsoft produce a patch , the company offer customer several option to protect themselves , include advice on configure emet 4 . 0 and run one of its fixit automate tool to shim the dll that contain the ie render engine .
emet -lrb- enhance mitigation experience toolkit -rrb- be a tool design for advanced user , primarily enterprise it professional , that manually enable anti - exploit technology such as aslr -lrb- address space layout randomization -rrb- and dep -lrb- datum execution prevention -rrb- for specific application .
but the fixit route will be easiest for individual user : microsoft post a link to the fixit tool on its support site , and customer need only click the icon mark enable . '' .
microsoft have use the shim approach before when face with unexpected attack against ie .
base on past practice , microsoft fixit workaround probably use the application compatibility toolkit to modify the core library of ie - - a dll -lrb- dynamic link library -rrb- name mshtml . dll that contain the browser render engine - - in memory each time ie run .
the shim do not quash the bug , but instead make the browser immune to the attack microsoft see in the wild thus far .
user can also temporarily ditch ie for a alternate browser , such as google chrome or mozilla firefox , to stay safe until microsoft come up with a permanent fix .
microsoft today decline say when it plan to patch the ie vulnerability .
but because the next regularly - schedule patch tuesday be three week away , it possible the redmond , wash . company security team will deliver a so - call out - of - band update before oct . 9 .
out - of - band update from microsoft be rare : the last one it ship be ms13 - 008 , a the emergency patch issue jan . 14 that plug a hole in ie6 , ie7 and ie8 that have be exploit since early december 2012 .
microsoft release security update for internet explorer .
microsoft have release a emergency security update to fix the vulnerability in internet explorer that have see the computer of at least two million user hack .
the '' zero day '' flaw allow hacker to gain access to the computer of visitor to infected website , jeopardise the security of password , bank detail and other personal information .
it be believe that as many as 233,000 web page have be affect .
microsoft say its '' critical '' update will protect user .
christopher budd , of the software giant 's security centre , say the company '' encourage all internet explorer customer to test and deploy this update as soon as possible '' .
mike reavey , also from the security centre , say : '' even with that , the release emergency response process be not over .
there be additional support to customer and additional refinement of we product development effort . '' .
microsoft have say that the flaw have be prove to exist only in version 7 of internet explorer , but that version 6 and the '' beta '' release of version 8 be also '' potentially vulnerable '' .
it have estimate that one in every 500 window user have be expose to website that attempt to exploit the flaw , and that the number of victim be increase by 50 per cent every day .
paul ferguson , a researcher from the software security company trend micro , tell the bbc that attack be spread '' like wildfire '' .
'' this vulnerability be be actively exploit by cyber-criminal and get worse every day , '' mr ferguson say .
microsoft rush emergency fix to address internet explorer attack .
september 17 , 2013 4 : 16 pm et .
microsoft have rush out a temporary fix to address ongoing attack target a internet explorer zero - day vulnerability .
the software giant say the fix - it temporary workaround should be effective in prevent a successful attack .
the company say the vulnerability impact all currently support version of the browser , but attack have be limit to user of internet explorer 8 and internet explorer 9 .
on completion of this investigation , microsoft will take the appropriate action to protect we customer , which may include provide a solution through we monthly security update release process , or a out - of - cycle security update , depend on customer need , '' the company say in a security advisory issue tuesday .
in addition , we be actively work with partner to monitor the threat landscape and take action against malicious site that attempt to exploit this vulnerability . '' .
the fact that microsoft be rush out a patch so quickly indicate the threat be serious , say paul henry , security and forensic analyst at lumension .
cybercriminal can set up drive - by attack campaign or lure victim to a website host malware that target the code error .
this seem to be perfectly position for drive - by malware use compromise website , '' henry tell crn .
since these be target attack , someone be restrict use of it ; they not want information about this out in the wild because they want to be able to profit from it or use it in nation - state attack . '' .
the attack be very target and limit to japan , accord to wolfgang kandek , chief technology officer of qualy .
it might not affect you at the moment .
but with the publication of the shim , other attacker can now analyze the condition fix and will be able to produce a equivalent exploit fairly quickly , '' kandek write in a blog post about the issue .
we suggest apply the fix - it as soon as possible if you use ie to access the internet . '' .
the flaw stem from a error in the way the browser access a object in memory that have be delete or have not be properly allocate .
the code error result in memory corruption , give a attacker the ability to execute code in the context of the current user within internet explorer , microsoft say .
as part of its september 2013 patch tuesday update , microsoft repair 47 vulnerability , include 10 critical flaw in internet explorer .
microsoft issue emergency patch for internet explorer .
microsoft have issue a emergency patch for its internet explorer browser , aim to fix a critical flaw that allow hacker to take over computer merely by steer they to infected website .
microsoft wednesday take the rare step of issue the patch after numerous security expert advise people to switch to rival browser until microsoft fix the problem .
microsoft usually release patch on a set schedule and this be only the third emergency patch in the last three year .
the flaw have be in circulation since the first week of december .
so far , more than two million computer be believe to have be infect , accord to pc magazine .
the vulnerability be find on copy of internet explorer 7 , as well as ie6 and ie5 .
the patch be design to prevent attacker from download malware onto user ' computer if they visit a malicious web site , or a legitimate web site that have be infect .
microsoft issue patch to fix ie bug .
september 19 , 2013 .
microsoft have reportedly issue a patch to fix a previously unknown vulnerability in its internet explorer -lrb- ie -rrb- web browser .
the software manufacturer say that the bug , related to the browser memory , could affect all version of ie6 to 10 as hacker could set up website to exploit the vulnerability and run malicious code on user computer .
accord to the bbc , microsoft dustin child advise user to set internet and local security zone setting to high to block activex control and active script apart from add site they trust to the ie trust site zone .
microsoft fix it patch apply only to 32 - bit version of ie and be not be roll out automatically and it be not intend to be a replacement for scheduled security update .
director at security company trusteer , dana tamir say that the patch be a temporary workaround , like apply a band - aid to a wound .
user have complain that they be repeatedly receive update installation message even after they have already do so , the report add .
microsoft patch major ie bug .
in record time , microsoft release today a '' out of band '' patch for a significant security flaw in internet explorer that burst onto the scene 8 day ago .
we strongly recommend that all window user , especially window xp and window 2000 user , apply the patch as soon as possible .
it be available on window update and through automatic update and by direct download through the security advisory for the vulnerability .
here be the description of the vulnerability that it present .
a remote code execution vulnerability exist as a invalid pointer reference in the datum binding function of internet explorer .
when datum binding be enable -lrb- which be the default state -rrb- , it be possible under certain condition for a object to be release without update the array length , leave the potential to access the delete object 's memory space .
this can cause internet explorer to exit unexpectedly , in a state that be exploitable .
that be not quite enough to help you to write a exploit , but it be a lot more detail than they usually release .
once again , run , do not walk , to you vulnerable pc and apply these update .
microsoft : ie zero day flaw affect all version .
microsoft say today that attacker be exploit a previously unknown , unpatched vulnerability in all support version of its internet explorer web browser .
the company say it be work on a official patch to plug the security hole , but in the meantime it have release a stopgap fix to help protect affect customer .
microsoft say it be aware of target attack that attempt to exploit the vulnerability -lrb- cve - 2013 - 3893 -rrb- in ie 8 and ie 9 version of the default window browser .
accord to a advisory issue today , the flaw be a remote code bug , which mean malware or miscreant could use it install malware just by coax ie user to browse a hack or malicious web site .
the fix it solution be available from this link .
to apply it , click the fix it icon above the fix this problem link .
apply this solution may limit some functionality of ie , so if you run into problem after apply this interim patch , you can click the fix it icon to the right of that '' enable '' button to reverse the update .
update : as several reader have already note in the comment , this fix it solution be for 32 - bit version of ie only .
in 64 - bit window , you can tell whether the browser you '' be use be a 32 - bit or 64 - bit version by open the window task manager -lrb- shift -rrb- and click the process tab .
the number that appear after the process name -lrb- in this case , iexplore . exe -rrb- indicate the version in use .
microsoft issue patch to fix ie .
microsoft have issue a security patch to fix a critical vulnerability in its internet explorer browser which it say have attack over 2m window user .
the flaw be believe to have already infect as many as 10,000 website .
the '' zero day '' exploit let criminal take over victim ' computer by steer they to infected website .
microsoft 's christopher budd say the software giant '' encourage all ie customer to test and deploy this update as soon as possible '' .
he also say the threat lead microsoft to mobilise security engineering team worldwide to deliver a software cure '' in the unprecedented time of eight day '' .
the company 's security response team say the patch consist of more than 300 distinct update for more than half-a-dozen version of ie in around 50 language .
'' even with that , the release emergency response process be not over , '' say security response alliance director mike reavey .
'' there be additional support to customer and additional refinement of we product development effort . '' .
microsoft stress that the flaw be prove to exist only in ie 7 on all applicable version of window , but that ie 6 and the '' beta '' release of ie 8 be '' potentially vulnerable '' .
user who have automatic update turn on will receive the patch over the next 24 hour while other can access it via a download .
the azn trojan have be make the round since the beginning of december but become public knowledge in the last week .
unlike other exploit , user only have to visit a malicious site with trojan or other malware in order to become contaminate .
once a infected web page be open , malicious downloader be install on the computer design to record keystroke and steal password , credit card detail and other financial information .
the site affect be mostly chinese and have be serve up programme to steal password for computer game which can then be sell for cash on the black market .
internet explorer be the world 's most widely use web browser with nearly three quarter of the market share .
microsoft estimate that one in every 500 window user have be expose to site that try to exploit the flaw and the number of victim be increase at a rate of 50 % daily .
researcher at the software security firm trend micro say attack be spread '' like wildfire '' .
'' this vulnerability be be actively exploit by cyber-criminal and get worse every day , '' say the company 's advanced threat researcher paul ferguson .
microsoft label the bug as '' critical , '' the most serious threat ranking in its four-step score programme .
the update be something of a unusual move for microsoft and underscore the seriousness of the zero day flaw .
the company rarely issue security fix for its software outside of its regular monthly patch update .
meanwhile mozilla have release a schedule update for its open source firefox web browser for at least 10 different vulnerability .
the bug in the browser could have be '' use to run attacker code and install software , require no user interaction beyond normal browsing , '' say mozilla .
it be also reissue call for user to upgrade from firefox 2.0 to firefox 3.0 as soon as possible and say it be '' not plan any further security and stability update for firefox 2 '' .
this mean mozilla will no longer support the firefox 2 browser against future online scam and attack .
microsoft to release patch for internet explorer .
the fix will remedy a vulnerability that allow a attacker to gain remote control of a window machine . .
wed , sep 19 2012 at 11 : 47 be .
microsoft will push out a out - of - cycle window patch to temporarily fix the critical internet explorer flaw reveal earlier this week .
while we have only see a few attempt to exploit the issue , impact a extremely limited number of people , we be take this proactive step to help ensure internet explorer customer be protect and able to safely browse online , '' microsoft trustworthy computing director yunsun wee say in a blog post on sept . 18 .
the fix it be a easy - to - use , one - click , full - strength solution any internet explorer user can install , '' wee write .
it will not affect you ability to browse the web , and it will provide full protection against this issue until a update be available .
it win '' t require a reboot of you computer .
this fix it will be available for everyone to download and install within the next few day , '' she add .
microsoft usually push out software update and security patch on the second tuesday of every month .
out - of - cycle patch be reserve for the most serious flaw .
it not clear what exactly microsoft have in mind , if , as wee indicate , the fix it be not a real update .
microsoft initially suggest that all internet explorer user install and configure a utility call the enhance mitigation experience toolkit -lrb- emet -rrb- to prevent exploitation of the flaw , but admit emet might interfere with other application .
most security expert , and the german government , have recommend a simpler solution : stop use internet explorer entirely until the flaw be fully fix .
the internet explorer vulnerability allow a attacker to gain remote control of a window machine at the same level of privilege as the current user .
that not so bad if a give machine current user have limit privilege , but very serious if the current user have administrator rights and can install , modify or delete software .
the flaw affect all currently distribute and support version of internet explorer and window : internet explorer version 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 and window xp , vista and 7 , as well as window server 2003 , and 2008 .
window 8 , due to be release to the general public oct . 26 , and its accompany web browser , internet explorer 10 , be not affect .
nor be window server 2012 .
microsoft issue emergency ie patch as attack escalate .
microsoft have issue a rare emergency update for its internet explorer browser as miscreant step up attack target a vulnerability on hundred of thousand of webpage .
in many case , the website distribute the toxic payload be legitimate destination that have be commandeer , allow a attacker to snare victim as they surf to online bank , forum , and other trust site .
there be at least six distinct version of attack code circulate in the wild , accord to researcher at idefense , a security lab own by verisign .
a web search show 233,000 page contain the string ardoshanghai.com/s.js , just one of many web address exploit a weakness in the way ie 's data-binding function work .
most of the attack silently install keylogging software as soon as a victim surf to a site carry the exploit .
once install , the software steal login credentials for online game .
attack string in separate sql injection include 17gamo .
researcher say the number of attack site be too high to keep exhaustive list , but shadowserver be do a admirable job here .
'' the vulnerability be so juicy that we expect it to show up in tool kit fairly shortly , '' say rick howard , intelligence director of idefense .
the patch be release eight day after report begin circulate that website be target a vulnerability in fully patch version of ie .
this be only the second time in 18 month that microsoft have issue a unscheduled update .
typically , patch be available on the second tuesday of each month to allow system administrator time for planning .
give the prevalence of attack , there be no good reason why anyone run a window machine should not stop what they be do and install the patch immediately -lrb- those with administrative rights , anyway -rrb- - do so be as easy as open ie and select window update from the tool menu .
the patch can also be download directly here .
howard mention the site of '' a major financial institution '' that he find host the exploit , so do not think you be immune just because you steer clear of porn and warez .
microsoft rush out security patch for internet explorer .
17 september 2013 - 21 : 29 .
normally , microsoft release security bulletin for software product on the second tuesday of each month .
that happen last week as schedule , but today the company announce it have rush out a additional patch design to fix a exploit that have be find in internet explorer , and be be use in attack on ie8 and ie9 .
in a post on its security response blog , microsoft say the issue would allow a hacker to launch a remote code execution if a person surf to a website use ie that contain malicious code .
the blog add , there be only report of a limited number of target attack specifically direct at internet explorer 8 and 9 , although the issue could potentially affect all support version . '' .
the company have release a fix - it patch , cve - 2013 - 3893 mshtml shim workaround to plug this security hole in all currently support version of ie .
in addition , microsoft recommend that user set they security setting on the web browser to high to block any activex control and active script on website .
it also recommend user set up ie so that it inform they ahead of time before run any active script feature .
the company plan to release a full security patch that will be a more complete solution to this problem in the near future .
microsoft rush to release patch to fix web browser flaw .
microsoft on wednesday issue a urgent patch to fix a internet explorer -lrb- ie -rrb- web browser flaw that may have be use by hacker to attack million of computer user .
the security update for ie , dub ms08-078 , resolve a publicly disclose vulnerability that '' could allow remote code execution if a user view a specially craft web page use internet explorer , '' the software giant say in a statement .
the flaw could allow hacker to take control of computer and steal password and credit card information .
write in a company blog , mike reavey , director of the microsoft security response center , urge user to test and deploy the security update '' as quickly as possible . '' .
microsoft say the update be for ie on all currently support version of window .
user can now download it for they home computer or laptop from microsoft update website .
microsoft security expert estimate earlier that roughly 0.2 percent of ie user worldwide may have be expose to website contain exploit of the latest vulnerability , which mean million of user be in danger of have they computer infect .
latest statistics from research firm net application show that ie still dominate the browser market with a share of nearly 70 percent .
microsoft rush urgent fix for internet explorer .
it '' be not patch tuesday , but microsoft have release a crucial update for internet explorer that you should apply immediately .
microsoft include a cumulative update for internet explorer in the 13 security bulletin that make up patch tuesday last week , and that update be consider critical as well .
since then , though , a new flaw have be target by attack in the wild , so microsoft have respond with a out - of - band update .
apply the urgent fix - it solution from microsoft to protect internet explorer from exploit .
the update from microsoft be a fix - it tool , which be more of a stop - gap bandage than a actual patch .
apply the fix - it will protect internet explorer and prevent the currently circulate exploit from work on you system .
paul henry , security and forensic analyst with lumension , say that there be number of mitigating factor that limit the potential scope of this threat , but those factor may offer little consolation for many user .
'' the bad news be that this be a very wide - reach patch , affect all version of ie across all operate system , from xp to rt , '' he say .
and more bad news : the average user be very susceptible to be hit with this . '' .
microsoft claim that run internet explorer in enhance security configuration mode prevent this attack .
internet explorer run in this restricted mode by default on window server 2008 , window server 2008 r2 , window server 2012 , and window server 2012 r2 .
microsoft state that all support version of outlook , outlook express , and window mail include protection by default as well .
html email message be open by default in the restricted site security zone , which disable script and activex control necessary for the exploit to execute .
however , microsoft caution that the protection in outlook only apply to the html message within outlook itself .
if a user receive a email with a link and click on it , they '' be still potentially vulnerable because the threat be now web - base and function outside of outlook .
'' the average user do not run the restricted site mode , be not use the enhance security configuration and be all - too - willing to click on phishing email , '' henry explain , i recommend employ the mitigating factor , as well as advise user about this so they will be less likely to click malicious link until you can apply the patch .
it '' be be a while since we '' ve see a out - of - band patch for ie from microsoft , but it '' s still important to apply it as soon as possible . '' .
'' it important to reiterate that all version of ie be affect include the internet explorer 11 preview , tyler reguly , technical manager of security research and development for tripwire , say .
since attack be occur now , this be a situation where it in everyone best interest for microsoft to release a patch as soon as possible .
in the meantime , install the shim that they release . '' .
he add , '' for less technical user that be comfortable with microsoft fix it solution , use another browser until a patch be available be the best option , '' .
a couple additional note : the fix - it solution only work with 32 - bit version of internet explorer , and you must first apply the cumulative update for internet explorer from last week '' s patch tuesday -lrb- ms13 - 069 -rrb- .
mark feel , who be know as watergate scandal informant deep throat , ' die on friday .
he be 95 .
feel work as the associate director of the fbi in the 1970 and be one of the most famous anonymous source for the press in american history .
he daughter joan feel say she father eat a big breakfast before say he be tired , and go to sleep , she tell the washington post .
he die at 12:45 p.m. on thursday at he home in santa rosa , california , the post state .
'' he slip away , '' she say .
feel blow the whistle on a corrupt administration try to cover up attempt to sabotage opponent .
he secretly guide washington post reporter bob woodward and he colleague carl bernstein who pursue the story of the 1972 break-in of the democratic national committee 's headquarters at the watergate office building .
that ultimately lead to the resignation of president richard m. nixon .
feel insist on remain completely anonymous until may 30 , 2005 when feel 's family reveal he identity in a article for vanity fair magazine .
fred larue , nixon administration aide , die .
wednesday , july 28 , 2004 .
fred larue , a watergate figure and high - ranking nixon administration official who once be rumor to be deep throat , have die of natural cause .
he be 75 .
he body be discover tuesday by a maid who enter he hotel room in biloxi , coroner gary hargrove say .
larue be know as the bagman who deliver payoff to keep participant in the watergate break - in quiet , and serve 41 / 2 month in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
larue serve as special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later head president nixon re - election committee .
larue be present at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder at nixon vacation home in key biscayne , fla . , where the plan to break into the watergate complex in washington allegedly be hatch .
larue say he advise against the burglarization of the building , which house democratic party headquarters .
after he political career end in scandal , larue return to he home state of mississippus to work in he family oil company and with its real estate holding .
larue discount rumor that he be deep throat , say the mysterious source for washington post reporter bob woodward and carl bernstein on the watergate story be not one person , but probably a combination of several people .
mark feel , ' deep throat ' of watergate , dead at 95 .
w. mark feel , who leak information to reporter under the moniker , '' deep throat , '' about the watergate break-in , die thursday at the age of 95 , source tell cnn .
mark feel , know as '' deep throat , '' divulge information to reporter about the watergate break-in .
rob jone , feel 's grandson , say he grandfather die at he home in santa rosa , california .
accord to publish report , feel die of congestive heart failure .
feel admit in a 2005 vanity fair article he be the washington post 's source for many of its 400 story on the watergate affair during the early nineteen seventy .
the watergate break-in eventually lead to the 1974 resignation of president richard nixon .
'' i be proud of everything that deep throat do , '' feel , 92 , tell cnn 's '' larry king live '' in 2006 , he first public interview on the subject .
feel 's entanglement with history occur in 1972 after the bungle break-in at the democratic national party office in the watergate hotel .
feel , a associate director at the fbi , say he be unhappy with the way the administration meddle with the investigation into the break-in , which lead he to divulge information to the newspaper .
video watch how feel play a pivotal role in presidential history .
carl bernstein and bob woodward , then-rookie reporter with the washington post , do story about the break-in and subsequent cover-up .
both man credit feel for help they , but bernstein say feel be a tough interview .
'' he do not leak .
he have to really be squeeze , '' bernstein say in a 2006 interview .
'' he confirm mostly what we have get elsewhere .
he do not want to volunteer a lot of information , yet he role be essential in give we a solidity and a knowledge that what we be report be right . '' .
fred larue , top nixon aide , die at 75 .
publish : july 28 , 2004 at 1 : 24 pm .
fred larue , a richard nixon white house aide and key player in the watergate scandal , be find dead in he room at a biloxi , miss . , motel , it be report wednesday .
larue be 75 , the biloxi sun herald report wednesday .
he be find dead , reportedly of natural cause , in he room at the sun tan motel tuesday morning , official say .
larue return to mississippus to tend he family real estate and oil interest after serve more than four year for he role in the watergate scandal .
know as the bagman , '' he be arguably nixon most vital defender .
watch the pb documentary look back at watergate last summer , larue call magruder a congenital liar and insist nixon have no knowledge of the plan .
larue be occasionally identify as deep throat , '' the shadowy character believe to have help two washington post reporter crack a bevy of nixon - era secret , include the watergate break - in .
but he deny he or any one individual could have be such a figure .
mark feel , deep throat ' in watergate report , die .
former fbus official have story role in washington post investigation that bring down nixon .
w. mark feel , the former fbi official who end one of the united state ' most intriguing political mystery when he identify himself as '' deep throat '' -- the nickname for the anonymous source who help guide the washington post 's pulitzer prize-winning investigation into the watergate scandal -- have die .
he be 95 .
a controversial figure who be later convict of authorize illegal activity in pursuit of member of the radical weather underground , feel die of heart failure thursday at he home in santa rosa , calif . , he grandson rob jone say .
feel be deputy associate director of the fbi in 1972 when he begin supply information to bob woodward , who with carl bernstein make up the post 's investigative duo who doggedly pursue the story of the watergate break-in and a conspiracy that lead directly to president richard m. nixon , who ultimately resign .
the reporter continue to keep feel 's name a secret , but in 2005 , at the age of 91 , feel tell vanity fair magazine , '' i be the guy they use to call deep throat . '' .
he disclosure end a mystery that have intrigue washington insider and journalist for three decade and provide the grist for many hotly debate newspaper and magazine article .
while feel 's name be raise as a suspect on several occasion , he always manage to deflect attention , usually by say that if have be deep throat he would have do a better job of expose the wrongdoing at the white house .
he disclosure in a vanity fair article by he family 's lawyer , john d. o'connor , provoke a national debate .
be he a hero who should be laud for spare the country the strain of further high crime and misdemeanor by the nixon white house ?
or be he a traitor who betray not only he president but he oath of office by disclose grand jury information and the contents of fbi file ?
for the most part , reaction split along political line .
'' there be nothing heroic about break faith with you people , '' say commentator patrick j. buchanan , a former nixon speechwriter .
feel '' disgrace himself and dishonor everything a fbi agent should stand for . '' .
but richard ben-veniste , a key lawyer in the watergate prosecution team , say feel 's role show that '' the importance of whistle-blower should not be underestimate , particularly when there be excess by the executive branch of government -- which in this case go all the way to the executive office . '' .
feel 's moment in history begin to unfold shortly after five man in business suit be arrest at the watergate complex in washington on june 17 , 1972 , after break into the office of the democratic national committee .
nixon press secretary ron ziegler dismiss the incident as '' a third-rate burglary , '' but detail gradually tumble out tie the burglar to the president 's re-election campaign .
misdeed in the white house be uncover , hearing be conduct in the house of representative and senate , and for the first time in american history a president be force to resign .
the relationship that define a generation in journalism begin about 1970 when woodward be a navy lieutenant assign to the pentagon as a watch officer .
in he book , '' the secret man : the story of watergate 's deep throat , '' publish after the vanity fair article appear , woodward write that he meet feel when he deliver a package of document to the white house and strike up a conversation with he in a wait room .
from that initial meeting , woodward cultivate a friendship that would pay off handsomely after he enter journalism .
feel begin to provide tip to woodward when he be a cub reporter at the montgomery county sentinel , a suburban maryland newspaper , and later at the post , where he be tip by feel on story about the investigation of the 1972 shooting of george c. wallace , the alabama governor then run for president .
when woodward be assign to the watergate break-in , he again press feel for help .
he request come during a crucial moment in the fbi 's history .
feel 's mentor , the legendary founding director j. edgar hoover , have die the month before the break-in , and assistant attorney general l. patrick gray iii have be name act director .
feel fear -- and he suspicion be later prove right -- that gray be too close to the nixon administration to conduct a uncompromised investigation .
feel agree to help woodward but only on '' deep background , '' a term meaning that '' the information could be use , '' woodward write , '' but no source of any kind would be identify in the newspaper . '' .
feel insist on use covert rule he have learn while work in the fbi 's espionage section during world war ii .
if woodward need to talk to feel , he would move a flower pot with a red cloth flag in it to the front of he apartment balcony .
if feel need to talk to the reporter -- to correct something the post have write or to convey other information -- he would circle page 20 in woodward 's home-delivered copy of the new york time and draw clock hand on the page to indicate the time of the meeting .
he resist telephone contact in favor of clandestine 2 a.m. encounter at a underground parking garage in rosslyn , virginia .
the two meet from june 19 , 1972 -- two day after the break-in -- to november 1973 , five month after feel leave the fbi .
within the paper , only woodward and bernstein know the identity of deep throat , a name borrow from a notorious pornographic movie of the era .
but feel deal only with woodward , and bernstein do not meet he until 2008 .
when nixon leave office on aug. 9 , 1974 , the two reporter share the secret with post editor benjamin c. bradlee , who until then have only know that the source be a high justice department official .
nixon , accord to woodward , have suspect feel of be the confidential source and assume he to be part of a jewish cabal out to get he .
accord to vanity fair , feel have no religious affiliation .
fred larue , 75 ; deliver hush money in watergate .
july 28 , 2004 .
fred larue , a close aide to former attorney general john mitchell and the first person to plead guilty in the watergate scandal , die of natural cause .
he be 75 .
he body be discover yesterday by a maid who enter he hotel room in biloxi .
coroner gary hargrove say he believe that mr . larue die saturday .
mr . larue be know as the bagman who deliver payoff to keep participant in the watergate break - in quiet .
he serve four month in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
mr . larue serve as special assistant to mitchell , who later head president nixon reelection committee .
mr . larue be present at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder at nixon vacation home in key biscayne , fla . , where the plan to break into the watergate complex in washington be allegedly hatch .
mr . larue say he advise against the burglarization of the building , which house democratic party headquarters .
after he political career end in scandal , mr . larue return to he home state of mississippus to work in he family oil company and with its real estate holding .
he also spend much time catch shrimp in the gulf of mexico .
a few researcher of the scandal have suggest that mr . larue could have be deep throat .
he discount those rumor , say the mysterious source for washington post reporter bob woodward and carl bernstein on the watergate story be not one person , but probably a combination of several people .
mark deep throat ' feel dead at 95 .
we be all learn this morning of the death , at age 95 , of w. mark feel , who as a senior federal bureau of investigation official , serve as the shadowy source know as '' deep throat '' to reporter bob woodward in he investigation of the watergate scandal that lead to president nixon 's resignation .
as johanna neuman write in a los angele time piece .
a controversial figure who be later convict of authorize illegal activity in pursuit of member of the radical weather underground , feel die of heart failure thursday at he home in santa rosa , calif. , he grandson rob jone say .
feel be deputy associate director of the fbi in 1972 when he begin supply information to bob woodward , who with carl bernstein make up the post 's investigative duo who doggedly pursue the story of the watergate break-in and a conspiracy that lead directly to president richard m. nixon , who ultimately resign .
the reporter continue to keep feel 's name a secret , but in 2005 , at the age of 91 , feel tell vanity fair magazine , '' i be the guy they use to call deep throat . '' .
he disclosure end a mystery that have intrigue washington insider and journalist for three decade and provide the grist for many hotly debate newspaper and magazine article .
while feel 's name be raise as a suspect on several occasion , he always manage to deflect attention , usually by say that if have be deep throat he would have do a better job of expose the wrongdoing at the white house .
he disclosure in a vanity fair article by he family 's lawyer , john d. o'connor , provoke a national debate .
be he a hero who should be laud for spare the country the strain of further high crime and misdemeanor by the nixon white house ?
or be he a traitor who betray not only he president but he oath of office by disclose grand jury information and the contents of fbi file ?
for the most part , reaction split along political line .
'' there be nothing heroic about break faith with you people , '' say commentator patrick j. buchanan , a former nixon speechwriter .
feel '' disgrace himself and dishonor everything a fbi agent should stand for . '' .
but richard ben-veniste , a key lawyer in the watergate prosecution team , say feel 's role show that '' the importance of whistle-blower should not be underestimate , particularly when there be excess by the executive branch of government -- which in this case go all the way to the executive office . '' .
lawman 's unwavering compass lead he to white house showdown .
w. mark feel sr. , the associate director of the fbi during the watergate scandal who , better know as '' deep throat , '' become the most famous anonymous source in american history , die yesterday .
feel die at 12:45 p.m . at he home in santa rosa , calif .
on tuesday , oct. 10 , 1972 , washington awake to this startling news .
'' fbi agent have establish that the watergate bugging incident stem from a massive campaign of political spy and sabotage conduct on behalf of president nixon 's reelection and direct by official of the white house and the committee for the re-election of the president , '' the washington post report .
bob woodward and carl bernstein write that story , but it would not have be possible , they would later tell the world , without the clandestine help of the most famous unnamed source in history , w. mark feel -- the man they call '' deep throat . '' .
he be the associate director of the fbi , and he guide the reporter , all along insist that watergate be not a isolate incident but part of a wider conspiracy design to destroy democratic presidential candidate who might run against nixon .
instead , the watergate scandal subsequently destroy the nixon presidency .
face impeachment , nixon resign the presidency in disgrace less than two year after that day in october when , one of he key lawyer would later say , it be apparent that '' in a general way and with the help of deep throat , -lrb- woodward and bernstein -rrb- figure out watergate . '' .
feel die thursday at he home in santa rosa , calif .
he be 95 .
as the second-ranking official in the fbi , feel possess authoritative knowledge of what come to be know as the watergate conspiracy .
feel have personally witness the nixon administration 's attempt to subvert the bureau 's investigation into the complex of crime and coverup that begin unravel with a 1972 burglary of the democratic national committee 's headquarters at the watergate complex in northwest washington .
'' he help stiffen the spine of the washington post , which go out on a limb more than any other publication do , and break story that other outlet shun , '' say mark feldstein , a george washington university faculty member who be write a book on nixon and the media .
'' have woodward not run with it , feel have a network of connection in washington , -lrb- other reporter -rrb- he be talk to ... but no one know of he connection to woodward . '' .
feel , a dash figure with a full head of silver hair and a reputation as a taskmaster , adamantly deny over the year that he be deep throat , even though nixon suspect he almost from the start .
nixon order interim fbus director l. patrick gray to fire feel five time .
but gray , convince by feel 's denial , never do .
a master of bureaucratic infighting and misdirection , feel seize upon a post story that have not use he as a source .
in a bold stroke , he denounce it in a internal memo and order a investigation into the leak .
'' expedite , '' he command .
the next day , in a notation on another memo that pass across he desk , he point to a prosecutor as the source of the leak .
'' i be impressed .
my guy know he stuff , '' woodward write in '' secret man : the story of watergate 's deep throat '' -lrb- 2006 -rrb- .
'' the memo be a effective cover for he , the very best counterintelligence tradecraft .
not only have he initiate the leak inquiry , but feel appear to have discover the leaker . '' .
feel have insist on remain completely anonymous , or on '' deep background . '' .
a post editor dub he '' deep throat , '' a bit of wordplay base on the title of a pornographic movie of the time .
the source 's existence , but not he identity , become know in woodward and bernstein 's 1974 book , '' all the president 's man , '' and in the subsequent movie version , in which actor hal holbrook play the charismatic but shadowy source .
it be not until may 30 , 2005 , that feel 's family reveal he identity in a article for vanity fair magazine .
the story , write by san francisco lawyer john d. o'connor , do not make clear why feel , who be suffer from dementia , admit he role after more than 30 year .
woodward confirm the revelation , and the secret be finally out .
deep throat suspect find dead in hotel .
thursday 29 july 2004 08 . 23 bst .
one of the longest - run mystery of american politics may soon be resolve after it be announce yesterday that the man many suspect of be deep throat in the watergate scandal have die .
fred larue , know as the bagman because he deliver payment to ensure the silence of participant in the watergate break - in , be find dead in a hotel room in biloxi , mississippi .
he be 75 .
the two washington post reporter who break the watergate story , carl bernstein and bob woodward , have maintain that they would only reveal the identity of deep throat once he be dead .
although there have be several name advance as deep throat , larue be one of the more likely candidate .
he be a special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who head creep , the campaign to be - elect the president , in 1972 .
larue be at a meeting at nixon florida holiday home at which the scheme to break into the democratic headquarters in the watergate building in washington be first moot .
although larue insist he be not deep throat , and that the source be a combination of several people , woodward and bernstein have insist deep throat be one person .
larue say last year that president nixon have not be tell of the plan to break into the building .
he cite he close relationship with mr mitchell to back up he claim that the president be ignorant of the plan .
larue serve four and a half month in prison for he role in the watergate conspiracy , after be charge with obstruct justice .
mark feel , the mysterious '' deep throat '' source who help washington post reporter bob woodward and carl bernstein crack the watergate scandal that bring down president richard nixon , have die at age 95 .
feel suffer from congestive heart failure but the exact cause of he death at home on thursday be not immediately know , say the press democrat newspaper in santa rosa , california , 55 mile -lrb- 90 km -rrb- north of san francisco .
in its report on feel 's death , the new york time call he '' the most famous anonymous source in american history . '' .
feel , the no. 2 official at the fbi when the watergate case break , keep he role in the story a secret for 30 year .
only in 2005 , at age 91 , be he part make public in a article in vanity fair magazine write by feel 's family lawyer .
'' i be the guy they use to call deep throat , '' feel tell attorney john o'connor .
for year , people have speculate and argue about the identity of '' deep throat , '' whose name be derive from the title of a popular pornographic movie .
vanity fair scoop woodward and bernstein , who have promise not to reveal the name of the star source of they 1974 story until after he death .
but within a day of feel 's unveiling , woodward write of he relationship with feel .
woodward say he turn to feel after he and bernstein write about the break-in at the office of the democratic national committee at the watergate complex in washington .
watergate bagman fred larue , 75 , die .
publish : july 29 , 2004 .
frederick cheney larue , 75 , the shadowy nixon white house aide and bagman who deliver more than 300 , 000 in payoff to watergate conspirator , die of coronary artery disease in a biloxi , miss . , motel room , where he live .
he body be find by a motel maid july 27 , but harrison county , miss . , coroner gary hargrove say he believe the death occur july 24 .
mr . larue have a history of heart problem , hargrove say .
consider one of the most mysterious man in the nixon administration , mr . larue serve as a presidential aide without title , salary or mention in the white house directory .
yet he be so close to the center of power that he be one of the few present at a march 30 , 1972 , meet at nixon vacation home on key biscayne , fla . , at which former attorney general john mitchell discuss the plan break - in and bugging of the democratic national committee headquarters office in the watergate building .
the money for the operation come from nixon reelection campaign fund , as do hush money pay to the watergate burglar and they attorney , mr . larue later testify to the senate watergate investigative committee .
he be the first administration official to plead guilty to charge in the watergate coverup and be the last to be sentence .
he plead guilty to one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice and be sentence to one to three year , with all but six month suspend .
he serve 136 day .
mr . larue come to washington in 1969 as a experienced political hand and be describe in a 1972 washington post profile as a squint , mumble faulknerian character , a insignificant - look man who ... ... ... passionately seek anonymity throughout he wheeler - dealer day . '' .
he be consider the liaison between mitchell and mississippi sen . jame o . eastland -lrb- d -rrb- , who be chairman of the senate judiciary committee and who support nixon judicial appointment .
mr . larue role during nixon 1968 election campaign be to woo southern voter .
bear in athen , tex . , mr . larue be nickname bubba in he family and graduate from the university of oklahoma with a bachelor degree in geology in 1951 .
he father , ike parson larue , go to jail on crime involve banking law , and upon he release , strike it rich in the oil and gas business .
the son sell one of they mississippi oil field for a report 30 million in 1957 , use he family newfound wealth to become a political financier .
later that year , mr . larue shot and kill he father in a duck - hunting accident in canada .
mr . larue become active in state republican politics and serve on the republican national committee from 1963 to 1968 .
he donate to barry goldwater 1964 presidential campaign and be a early donor to nixon 1968 campaign .
he be very close to mitchell , and after the attorney general resign in 1972 to become campaign director of the committee to be - elect the president -lrb- creep -rrb- , mr . larue go with he .
after the watergate break - in , mr . larue and another aide , robert c . mardian , be put in charge of the coverup , supervise the shredding of document and destruction of financial record .
hugh w . sloan jr . , former treasurer of the creep finance committee , say under oath that mr . larue and deputy campaign manager jeb stuart magruder tell he he might have to commit perjury to protect the watergate conspiracy .
they try to get he to agree to testify that he give watergate burglar g . gordon liddy much less than the campaign financial record show .
after mr . larue plead guilty and serve he sentence in 1973 , he return to mississippus , where he work in the family oil and real estate development business , he nephew william t . larue say .
the family money have dwindle by the early 1970s , after the larue lose money in the castaway , a las vegas gambling casino they buy in 1963 .
mr . larue say in 1971 , be no millionaire . '' .
he be one of many nixon - era figure rumor over the year to be deep throat , '' the undercover source of washington post reporter bob woodward and carl bernstein .
mr . larue deny that he be deep throat , and woodward say he will not reveal the source name until after deep throat die .
survivor include he wife , joyce larue of jackson , miss . ; five child ; and several grandchild .
mark feel , watergate 's deep throat , ' die at 95 .
w. mark feel , the former fbi second-in-command who reveal himself as '' deep throat '' 30 year after he tip off reporter to the watergate scandal that topple a president , have die .
he be 95 .
feel die thursday in santa rosa after suffer from congestive heart failure for several month , say family friend john d. o'connor , who write the 2005 vanity fair article uncover feel 's secret .
the shadowy central figure in the one of the most gripping political dramas of the 20th century , feel insist he alter ego be keep secret when he leak damaging information about president richard nixon and he aide to washington post reporter bob woodward .
while some - include nixon and he aide - speculate that feel be the source who connect the white house to the june 1972 break-in at the headquarters of the democratic national committee , he steadfastly deny the accusation until finally come forward in may 2005 .
'' i be the guy they use to call deep throat , '' feel tell o'connor for the vanity fair article , create a whirlwind of media attention .
weaken by a stroke , the man who have keep he secret for decade be not do much talking - he merely wave to the media from the front door of he daughter 's santa rosa home .
critic , include those who go to prison for the watergate scandal , call he a traitor for betray the commander in chief .
supporter hail he as a hero for blow the whistle on a corrupt administration try to cover up attempt to sabotage opponent .
feel grapple with he place in history , argue with he child over whether to reveal he identity or to take he secret to the grave , o'connor say .
he agonize about what reveal he identity would do to he reputation .
would he be see as a turncoat or a man of honor ?
'' people will debate for a long time whether i do the right thing by help woodward , '' feel write in he 2006 memoir , '' a g-man 's life : the fbi , deep throat ' and the struggle for honor in washington . '' .
'' the bottom line be that we do get the whole truth out , and be not that what the fbi be suppose to do ? '' .
ultimately , he daughter , joan , persuade he to go public ; .
after all , woodward be sure to profit by reveal the secret after feel die .
'' we could make at least enough money to pay some bill , like the debt i have run up for the kid ' education , '' she tell she father , accord to the vanity fair article .
'' let 's do it for the family . '' .
the revelation cap a washington whodunnit that span more than three decade and seven president .
it be the final mystery of watergate , the subject of the best-selling book and hit movie '' all the president 's man , '' which inspire a generation of college student to pursue journalism .
it be by chance that feel come to play a pivotal role in the drama .
back in 1970 , woodward strike up a conversation with feel while both be wait in a white house hallway .
feel apparently take a liking to the young woodward , then a navy courier , and woodward keep the relationship go , treat feel as a mentor as he try to figure out the way of washington .
later , while woodward and partner carl bernstein rely on various unnamed source in report on watergate , the man they editor dub '' deep throat '' help to keep they on track and confirm vital information .
the post win a pulitzer prize for its watergate coverage .
within day of the burglary at watergate that launch the post 's investigative series , woodward phone feel .
'' he remind I how he dislike phone call at the office but say that the watergate burglary case be go to heat up ' for reason he could not explain , '' woodward write after feel be name .
'' he then hang up abruptly . '' .
feel help woodward link former cia man howard hunt to the break-in .
he say the reporter could accurately write that hunt , whose name be find in the address book of one of the burglar , be a suspect .
but feel tell he off the record , insist that they relationship and feel 's identity remain secret .
worry that phone be be tap , feel arrange clandestine meeting worthy of a spy novel .
woodward would move a flower pot with a red flag on he balcony if he need to meet feel .
the g-man would scrawl a time to meet on page 20 of woodward 's copy of the new york time and they would rendezvous in a suburban virginia parking garage in the dead of night .
in the movie , the enduring image of deep throat - a name borrow from a 1972 porn movie - be of a testy , chain-smoking hal holbrook tell woodward , play by robert redford , to '' follow the money . '' .
in a memoir publish in april 2006 , feel say he see himself as a '' lone ranger '' who could help derail a white house cover-up .
feel write that he be upset by the slow pace of the fbi investigation into the watergate break-in and believe the press could pressure the administration to cooperate .
'' from the start , it be clear that senior administration official be up to they neck in this mess , and that they would stop at nothing to sabotage we investigation , '' feel write in he memoir .
some critic say feel , a j. edgar hoover loyalist , be bitter at be pass over when nixon appoint a fbi outsider and confidante , l. patrick gray , to lead the fbi after hoover 's death .
gray be later implicate in watergate abuse .
'' we have no idea of he motivation , and even now some of he motivation be unclear , '' bernstein say .
feel write that he be not motivate by anger .
'' it be true that i would have welcome a appointment as fbi director when hoover die .
it be not true that i be jealous of gray , '' he write .
feel be bear in twin fall , idaho , and work for a idaho senator during graduate school .
after law school at george washington university he spend a year at the federal trade commission .
feel join the fbi in 1942 and work as a nazi hunter during world war ii .
ironically , while provide crucial information to the post , feel also be assign to ferret out the newspaper 's source .
the investigation never go anywhere , but plenty of people , include those in the white house at the time , guess that feel , who be lead the investigation into watergate , may have be act as a double agent .
the watergate tape capture white house chief of staff h.r. haldeman tell nixon that feel be the source , but they be afraid to stop he .
nixon ask : '' somebody in the fbi ? '' .
haldeman : '' yes , sir mark feel ... .
if we move on he , he will go out and unload everything .
he know everything that be to be know in the fbi . '' .
feel leave the fbi in 1973 for the lecture circuit .
five year later he be indict on charge of authorize fbi break-in at home associate with suspect bomber from the 1960s radical group the weather underground .
president ronald reagan pardon feel in 1981 while the case be on appeal - a move applaud by nixon .
woodward and bernstein say they would not reveal the source 's identity until he or she die , and finally confirm feel 's role only after he come forward .
o'connor say thursday he friend appear to be at peace since the revelation .
'' what i saw be a person that go from a divide personality that carry around this heavy secret to a completely integrate and glowing personality over these past few year once he let the secret out , '' he say .
feel be survive by two child , joan feel and mark feel jr. , and four grandchild .
he wife , audrey feel , die in 1984 .
fred larue , watergate figure , die at 75 .
publish : july 29 , 2004 .
frederick c . larue , a top nixon campaign official who pass money from a secret white house fund to buy the silence of the watergate burglar , die saturday at a hotel in biloxi , miss .
he be 75 .
he heart fail while he be read a book , he son , ike larue iii , say .
he live in biloxi and jackson , miss .
fred larue career be intertwine with that of richard m . nixon from the time he transfer he considerable financial support to nixon from the defeat presidential candidate barry goldwater in 1964 .
he be a architect of nixon successful strategy for capture southern vote and then a significant participant in the watergate scandal .
mr . larue plead guilty to obstruction of justice in july 1973 .
he serve a reduce sentence of four and a half month in federal prison in return for cooperate with prosecutor investigate the break - in at the watergate complex , which house the headquarters of the democratic national committee , on june 17 , 1972 .
he be at the meeting in key biscayne , fla . , on march 30 , 1972 , where john n . mitchell , the former attorney general who become head of nixon re - election campaign committee , and jeb stuart magruder , mr . mitchell deputy , approve a dirty trick campaign , include the watergate break - in .
mr . larue be also at the meeting after the break - in at which some of the same official scurry to come up with money for the burglar .
mr . larue personally deliver payment .
nixon acknowledge he own involvement in the cover - up , but always deny advance knowledge of the break - in .
in a heated exchange with mr . magruder in 2003 , mr . larue support nixon claim of ignorance of the initial burglary .
mr . larue main argument be that he have be in charge of the phone at a florida meeting of the top campaign staff where the break - in be plan and be monitor all call .
nixon never call , he say in a interview with the sun herald , a biloxi newspaper .
also , he say he personal relationship with mitchell be so close that mitchell would certainly have tell he .
mr . larue deny suggestion that he be deep throat , '' the secret watergate source use by bob woodward in he joint coverage of the scandal with carl bernstein for the washington post .
mr . larue say he believe the secret informer be a amalgam of several people , but mr . woodward have say that it be one person and that he will reveal that person identity after he death .
mr . larue , whose family amass a fortune in the oil business , play a important role with nixon many year before watergate .
after contribute heavily to goldwater lose presidential campaign in 1964 , he become a lead supporter of nixon .
in particular , he help develop a southern strategy for the republican to recapture southern state from the democrat .
after nixon election in 1968 , mr . larue work in the white house without title or salary .
partly through he friendship with senator jame o . eastland , the mississippi democrat who be chairman of the judiciary committee , mr . larue help to win confirmation for nixon nominee to the federal bench .
he be a elusive , anonymous , secret operator at the highest level of the shatter nixon power structure , '' the new york time report in 1973 .
he be a man of personal mystery , too - a latter - day character , it sometimes seem , out of a southern gothic novel . '' .
frederick cheney larue be bear oct . 11 , 1928 , in athen , tex .
he father , ike parson larue sr . , whom fred larue shot and kill in a canadian duck - hunting accident in 1957 , be a first cousin of sid richardson , the texa oil and ranching tycoon .
the elder mr . larue have go to jail for banking violation and move to mississippus to look for oil .
he company discover the giant bolton field , which fred generation sell for 30 million in 1967 .
fred larue spread money to local and national politician , and , despite he shyness , acquire the nickname bubba .
he become a republican national committeeman .
in the end , mr . larue be one of the first top nixon aide to cooperate with prosecutor .
larue have stress that it be time for both of we to think about protect ourselves and we family instead of continue to worry about protect mitchell and the president , '' mr . magruder write in he 1974 book , a american life : one man road to watergate . '' .
mr . larue be survive by he wife , joyce burleson larue ; he son ike iii , of jackson , and fred jr . , of brandon , miss . ; he daughter patricia larue of arlington , tex . , leslie larue of manhattan , grace burleson larue of crystal spring , miss . ; he brother , ike jr . ; he sister , ruthie larue owen of jackson ; and nine grandchild .
in the interview with the sun herald , mr . larue guess that the healthy regimen of he month in prison add 10 year to he life .
the warden let I make a badminton court out of the volleyball court , '' he say .
we have some of the best badminton player in the country . '' .
mark feel , the most famous anonymous source in the history of journalism who be know to the world as '' deep throat '' , die yesterday aged 95 .
as the associate director of the fbi , mr feel be outrage by the nixon administration 's attempt to block its investigation of the watergate scandal which ultimately lead to the resignation of president richard nixon in 1974 .
a master of counter-intelligence from he day track german wwius spy , he secretly help washington post reporter bob woodward and carl bernstein pursue the story .
it be thirty four year before he finally break cover , admit in 2006 .
'' i be the guy they use to call deep throat . '' .
by then , he be so cripple by a stroke and alzheimer 's disease that he memory of he role in we history have almost vanish .
from the first day of the bungle 1972 break-in of the democratic national committee 's headquarters in the watergate hotel mr feel be at the heart of the fbi investigation .
the agency soon learn that the nixon administration be run a extensive spy and sabotage campaign against its political enemy .
under intense pressure from the white house to suppress its investigation , the fbi be start to buckle .
a protagonist of the famous fbi director herbert hoover , the mr feel be already embittered for be pass over as he replacement .
when white house official try to block the fbi 's corruption investigation , he become infuriate with what he would call they switchblade mentality . ' .
a debonair man about town and incurable political gossip , mr feel be already know to mr woodward when he first reach out to he .
soon he be arrange cloak and dagger meeting with the young reporter in darkened parking garage across the potomac river .
the chain-smoking fbi-man provide a insight into the scale of the presidential scandal that be larger than anyone have imagine .
'' deep throat '' , the name give to he at the washington post , be a wordplay base on a well know pornographic movie and he insistence on remain on '' deep background '' despite the sensational nature of he revelation .
from the outset president nixon suspect he of be the leaker and five time order the fbi director patrick gray to fire he .
feel 's adamant denial be convince enough and he be never sack .
deep throat continue to leak and on the assumption that he be be monitor he have elaborate procedure for contact mr woodward .
when he have information to pass on , he would arrange meeting by circle the page number on page twenty of the reporter 's copy of the new york time and then draw the hand of a clock to signal the hour .
if mr woodward want to see he he would simply place a red flag in a flowerpot on the balcony of he p street apartment .
over the course of the scandal , deep throat supply crucial information for some 400 washington post story .
the reporter go on to win a pulitzer prize , journalism 's highest accolade .
a master of the black art of disinformation , at fbi headquarters he alight on a newspaper story for which he be not the source and order a investigation to find the leaker .
he then finger a prosecutor as the source .
mr woodward write in he 2006 expose , '' secret man : the story of watergate 's deep throat '' that '' the memo be a effective cover for he , the very best counterintelligence tradecraft .
not only have he initiate the leak inquiry , but feel appear to have discover the leaker . '' .
by then deep throat 's real identity have already be reveal in vanity fair magazine .
more than 30 year after watergate and mr woodward confirm the revelation , finally let he secret out .
by then mr feel be suffer from dementia and have little or no memory of he role in history .
though deep throat be a hero to the anti vietnam war movement and the left , mr feel be no liberal .
a law and order crime-fighter , he run the agency 's '' goon squad '' to monitor agent in the field .
he also advise hollywood for its 1965 television series the fbi , ensure that g-man be always show in the most favourable light .
long after watergate he be convict of run he own so call '' black bag '' burglary of the radical weather underground movement .
he be later pardon by president ronald reagan .
in a 1979 book , he brag about the fbi 's bugging of the civil rights leader martin luther king and he vehemently oppose the hiring of woman agent by the fbi .
watergate figure fred larue die .
publish july 28 , 2004 .
fred larue , a watergate figure and high - ranking nixon administration official who once be rumor to be deep throat , have die of natural cause .
he be 75 .
he body be discover tuesday by a maid who enter he hotel room in biloxi , coroner gary hargrove say .
the coroner say he believe mr . larue die saturday -lrb- july 24 , 2004 -rrb- .
mr . larue be know as the bagman who deliver payoff to keep participant in the watergate breakin quiet , and serve 41 / 2 month in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
mr . larue serve as special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later head president richard nixon re - election committee .
mr . larue be at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder in key biscayne , where the plan to break into the watergate complex allegedly be hatch .
after he political career end in scandal , mr . larue return to he home state of mississippus to work in he family business .
mr . larue discount rumor that he be deep throat , say the mysterious source for washington post reporter bob woodward and carl bernstein be not one person , but probably a combination of people .
deep throat be dead .
the pass yesterday of w. mark feel , the man who be the infamous secret source for washington post reporter bob woodward and carl bernstein during they investigation of the watergate scandal , mark the end of a life that bring about both the good and the bad of anonymous source in political journalism .
without feel 's information , the full scale of the nixon administration 's corruption would likely never have come to light , he would not have resign in disgrace , and it might have set a precedent that the president of the united state be above the law .
deep throat also give we a new archetype in popular culture : the shadowy insider in a trench coat , call up reporter for secret meeting in parking garage to spill the dirt , often with gravely voice and cautious look over the shoulder .
it be be employ in entertainment ever since , from hal holbrook 's performance as deep throat in all the president 's man , to fox mulder 's informant in the x-files , to even the caped crusader give vickus vale the cure for the joker 's poison gas in batman .
but the downside of feel 's legacy be the increase willingness of modern day journalist to grant anonymity to source at the drop of a fedora .
i have be a avid reader of political news for ten year now and lose count of how many story be attribute to someone , '' who decline to be name because they be not authorize to speak on the matter , '' or , '' who decline to be name for fear of anger the president . '' .
it be become a lazy reporter 's default set to allow people to talk on '' deep background , '' and as a result we have slip into a rut where accountability in government have become a rare , almost non-existent concept .
all journalist should pore over the many obit of feel today and think long and hard about they duty to the public the next time someone ask to go off the record .
frederick larue , 75 ; have key role in coverup of the watergate break - in .
july 29 , 2004 .
frederick c . larue , a mississippi oil heir who become the first person find guilty of participate in the watergate coverup and be among those rumor to be the mysterious deep throat , have die at 75 .
larue body be find tuesday by a maid at the biloxi hotel where he be stay .
the harrison county , miss . , coroner , gary hargrove , tell the associated press that larue be believe to have die saturday of natural cause .
a close friend and associate of john mitchell - - president nixon attorney general and later he reelection campaign director - - larue become a trust member of the administration in 1969 , even though he do not have a salary , a title or a listing in the white house directory .
describe as a skillful behind - the - scene operator , he be present at a key meeting in 1972 between mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder when the plan to break into the democratic national committee headquarters at the watergate complex in washington allegedly be approve .
larue become a central figure in the watergate coverup as the bagman who deliver hush money to participant in the bungle break - in .
on june 27 , 1973 , he plead guilty to one charge of conspire to obstruct justice and begin cooperate with prosecutor .
he serve five month in federal prison .
he remain a ardent defender of nixon , speak out as recently as last year to assail magruder assertion in a pbs program that the president order the illegal entry and bugging at the watergate .
larue have experience scandal and tragedy before he ever enter nixon inner circle .
he father , ike parson larue , have serve jail time for banking violation .
later , in 1954 , he strike oil in mississippi .
young frederick work in the oil field alongside other relative for several year , until it be sell for a report 30 million in 1967 .
that same year he shoot and kill he father in a hunting accident in canada .
various report suggest that the larue never have control of the oil fortune or that they squander it in bad investment .
when frederick larue name start appear in newspaper in connection with the watergate controversy , he tell a reporter that he be no millionaire . '' .
the family wealth , however , establish he as a power in mississippi politics in the 1960 .
he be a major contributor to arizona republican sen . barry goldwater fail 1964 presidential bid .
in 1967 larue become a generous friend of the nixon campaign .
when the republican national convention come around the following year , he be a key southern strategist in the nixon election drive .
in 1972 , after mitchell resign as attorney general to head the committee to be - elect the president , know as creep , larue become a hard - core member of the mitchell group at creep , along with robert c . mardian and henry s . fleming .
he also work closely with magruder , the deputy campaign manager .
they become so close that they be often refer to as one person , magrue . '' .
larue be with magruder , mitchell and mardian at a campaign stop in lo angele when the watergate burglar be arrest , on june 17 , 1972 .
g . gordon liddy , one of the plumber - - the nickname for the clandestine white house operation that carry out the burglary - - phone magruder and larue during breakfast to break the news .
magruder take the call .
he say , that gordon liddy .
he want I to go out to some air base and talk on a secure phone , ' '' larue , recall magruder word , tell the biloxi sun herald last year .
i say , go get the damned pay phone .
that just as good , and find out what he want . ' '' .
accord to magruder testimony before the senate watergate committee - - a account reportedly confirm by larue - - he and larue work in lock - step with mitchell and mardian from that day forward to concoct and maintain a coverup story .
i join in that coverup , at least by acquiescence , '' larue say in a statement after he admit the government charge against he .
he also join mardian in destroy document and financial record pertain to the watergate operation .
additionally , larue receive more than 300 , 000 in cash , which he distribute to watergate defendant and they lawyer .
jame w . mccord jr . , one of the man arrest at the watergate complex , say at the time that the money be pay to ensure that all the defendant would plead guilty and remain silent .
of the seven defendant , mccord and liddy refuse to plead guilty , but all be find guilty of conspiracy , burglary and wiretapping .
although the first to plead guilty in the coverup case , larue be the last defendant to be sentence .
he serve most of a six - month sentence before return to mississippus .
he be often mention as among those think to be washington post reporter bob woodward shadowy inside source , deep throat .
other candidate include alexander haig , nixon chief of staff and later president reagan secretary of state ; earl j . silbert , a original watergate prosecutor ; and l . patrick gray , the act fbi director , who live near woodward .
larue deny the distinction , as do all the other , and conjecture that the legendary source be actually a amalgamation of figure close to the scandal .
who ... ... ... would it have be ? '' he muse in a interview with a biloxi reporter recently .
there be not that many people who know the inside and out of what be go on .
i not think it would have be magruder .
it be I . '' .
woodward , who say he would reveal deep throat identity after the source die , could not be reach wednesday .
the former fbi second-in-command who reveal himself as '' deep throat '' 30 year after he tip off reporter to the watergate scandal that topple a president have die .
mark feel be 95 john d. o'connor , a family friend who write the 2005 vanity fair article uncover feel 's secret , say he die thursday .
the shadowy central figure in one of the most gripping political dramas of the 20th century , feel insist he alter ego be keep secret when he leak damaging information about president richard nixon and he aide to the washington post .
some speculate that feel be the source who connect the white house to the june 1972 break-in at the headquarters of the democratic national committee .
he steadfastly deny the accusation until finally come forward in may 2005 .
in the last week of november , the national archive release more than 10,000 page of document from the nixon presidency , among they be the urging of past and present fbus agent and other interested citizen to appoint feel , then the no. 2 fbus official , as director .
associate describe he '' outstanding loyalty . '' .
nixon do not take the advice .
ultimately , feel 's devastate leak as the washington post 's secret watergate source help undermine nixon 's presidency .
nixon , soon to be consume by the watergate investigation , pass over career agent include feel when he select loyalist l. patrick gray as fbi chief after the j. edgar hoover 's death in 1972 , just week before the watergate break-in .
gray resign the next year because of allegation he have destroy watergate document .
feel 's supporter weigh in , with letter , telegram and card that have be in nixon 's white house file all these year .
'' he have the integrity , the ability , the experience and the image to insure that we fbus will continue to deserve and maintain world esteem , '' harold l. child jr. , legal attache to the embassy in japan and a 30-year fbi veteran , tell nixon in a april 1973 letter .
efton a. stanfield , a former fbi special agent who be then a executive of the electrical contractor ' association , ask nixon in a telegram to turn to the career professional to replace gray .
'' mr. feel be a man of outstanding loyalty , character , reputation , habit , '' he say .
the '' fidelity , bravery , and integrity of mr. feel be unquestioned . '' .
feel himself be the lead agent in a telegram send to the white house by a group of agent ask that a highly qualify professional be nominate .
the police chief in kodiak , alaska , make the case for feel , and so do ordinary citizen .
write from brooklyn , n.y. , viena k. neaville tell nixon that choose feel would be good for he because , '' you would be spare the tremendous aggravation to which you be subject by so many faction . '' .
nixon be spare no grief .
he eventually choose william ruckelshaus , who serve at fbi only briefly .
deep throat 's identity remain a mystery until feel step forward in 2005 to acknowledge he clandestine role in bring down nixon .
bob woodward of the washington post say he first speak with feel about watergate two day after the break-in .
watergate figure fred larue , july 24 .
july 28 , 2004 .
fred larue , a high - ranking nixon administration official who serve a 4 - 1 / 2 - month prison term for he role in watergate and be among those rumor to be deep throat , have die .
he be 75 .
he body be discover tuesday , july 27 , 2004 , by a maid who enter he hotel room in biloxi , miss .
the coroner believe larue die saturday , july 24 , 2004 , of natural cause .
larue be know as the bagman who deliver payoff to keep participant in the watergate break - in quiet .
he be a special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later head president nixon committee to be - elect the president .
larue be present at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder at nixon vacation home in key biscayne where the plan to break in democratic headquarters at the watergate complex allegedly be hatch .
larue always say he advise against the burglary .
he also discount rumor he be deep throat .
mark feel , fbi official who become deep throat , ' dead at 95 .
w. mark feel , who be the no. 2 official at the fbi when he help bring down president richard m. nixon by resist the watergate cover-up and become deep throat , the most famous anonymous source in american history , die on thursday .
he be 95 and live in santa rosa .
he death be confirm by rob jone , he grandson .
in 2005 , feel reveal that he be the source who have secretly supply bob woodward of the washington post with crucial lead in the watergate affair in the early nineteen seventy .
he decision to unmask himself , in a article in vanity fair , end a guess game that have go on for more than 30 year .
the disclosure even surprise woodward and he partner on the watergate story , carl bernstein .
they have keep they promise not to reveal he identity until after he death .
indeed , woodward be so scrupulous about shield feel that he do not introduce he to bernstein until this year , 36 year after they crack the scandal .
the three meet for two hour one afternoon in november in santa rosa , where feel have retire .
the reporter liken it to a family reunion .
feel play a dual role in nixon 's downfall .
as a secret informant , he keep the story alive in the press .
as associate director of the fbi , he fight the president 's effort to obstruct the fbi 's investigation of the watergate break-in .
feel later say he believe that nixon have be misuse the fbi for political advantage .
he know that nixon want the watergate affair to vanish .
he know that the white house have order the cia to tell the bureau , on grounds of national security , to stand down in its felony investigation of the june 1972 break-in .
he see that order as a effort to obstruct justice , and he reject it .
that resistance lead indirectly to nixon 's resignation .
pass up for promotion .
feel have expect to be name to succeed j. edgar hoover , who have run the bureau for 48 year and die in may 1972 .
the president instead choose a politically loyal justice department official , l. patrick gray , who later follow order from the white house to destroy document in the case .
the choice infuriate feel .
he later write that the president '' want a politician in j. edgar hoover 's position who would convert the bureau into a adjunct of the white house machine . '' .
hoover have swear off break-in without warrant - '' black bag job , '' he call they - in 1966 , after carry they out at the fbi for four decade .
the nixon white house hire its own operative to steal information , plant eavesdropping equipment and hunt down the source of leak .
the watergate break-in take place six week after hoover die .
while watergate be seething , feel authorize nine illegal break-in at the home of friend and relative of member of the weather underground , a violent left-wing splinter group .
the people he choose as target have commit no crime .
the fbi have no search warrant .
he later say he order the break-in because he feel national security require it .
in a criminal trial , feel be convict in november 1980 of conspire to violate the constitutional rights of american .
nixon , who have denounce he in private for leak watergate secret , testify on he behalf .
call by the prosecution , he tell the jury that president and by extension they officer have a inherent right to conduct illegal search in the name of national security .
'' as deep throat , feel help establish the principle that we highest government official be subject to the constitution and the law of the land , '' the prosecutor , john w. nield , write in the washington post in 2005 .
'' yet when it come to the weather underground bag job , he seem not to have be aware that this same principle apply to he . '' .
seven month after the conviction , president ronald reagan pardon feel .
then 67 , feel celebrate the decision as one of great symbolic value .
'' this be go to be the biggest shot in the arm for the intelligence community for a long time , '' he say .
after the pardon , nixon send he a congratulatory bottle of champagne .
feel then disappear from public view for a quarter of a century , deny unequivocally , time and again , that he have be deep throat .
it be a lie he tell to serve what he believe to be a higher truth .
william mark feel be bear in twin fall , idaho , on aug. 17 , 1913 .
after graduate from the university of idaho , he be draw to public service in washington and go to work for sen. jame p. pope , d-idaho .
in 1938 , he marry he college sweetheart , audrey robinson , in washington .
they be wed by the chaplain of the house of representative .
she die in 1984 .
the couple have a daughter , joan , and a son , mark .
they and four grandson survive feel .
day before pearl harbor , after earn a law degree in night class at george washington university , feel apply to the fbi and join it in january 1942 .
he spend most of world war ii hunting german spy .
after stint in seattle , new orlean and lo angele , hoover name he special agent in charge of the salt lake city and kansa city office in the late nineteen fifty .
rise to high position at the headquarters in the 1960 , he oversee the training of fbi agent and conduct internal investigation as chief of the inspection division .
in early 1970 , while wait in a anteroom of the west wing of the white house , feel chance to meet a navy lieutenant deliver classify message to the national security council staff .
the young man in dress blues be bob woodward .
by he own description fiercely ambitious and in need of adult guidance , woodward try to wring career counseling from he elder .
he leave the white house with the number to feel 's direct line at the fbi .
on july 1 , 1971 , hoover promote feel to deputy associate director , the third in command at the headquarters , beneath hoover 's right-hand man and longtime companion , clyde a. tolson .
with both of he superior in poor health , feel increasingly take effective command of the daily work of the fbi .
when hoover die and tolson retire , he see he path to power clear .
but nixon deny he , and he seethe with frustrated ambition in summer 1972 .
break watergate .
one evening that summer , a few week after the watergate break-in , woodward , then a neophyte newspaperman , knock on feel 's door in pursuit of the story .
feel decide to cooperate with he and set up a elaborate system of espionage technique for clandestine meeting with woodward .
if woodward need to talk , he would move a flowerpot plant with a red flag on the balcony of he apartment on p street in washington .
if feel have a message , woodward 's home-delivered new york time would arrive with a ink circle on page 20 .
woodward would leave he apartment by the back alley that night and take one taxi to a downtown hotel , then a second to a underground parking garage in the rosslyn section of arlington , virginia .
within week , feel steer the post to a story establish that the watergate break-in be part of '' a massive campaign of political spy and sabotage '' direct by the white house .
for the next eight month , he do he best to keep the newspaper on the trail , largely by provide , on '' deep background , '' anonymous confirmation of fact reporter have gather from other .
the post 's managing editor , howard simon , give he he famous pseudonym , take from the pornographic movie then in vogue .
million of american know he only as a shadowy figure in the 1976 movie make from the watergate saga , '' all the president 's man , '' which make '' woodward and bernstein '' legend of american journalism .
in the movie , deep throat -lrb- hal holbrook -rrb- give woodward -lrb- robert redford -rrb- probably the most famous bit of free advice in the history of investigative journalism .
it be a three-word road map to the heart of the matter : '' follow the money . '' .
feel never say it .
it be part of the myth that surround deep throat .
fred larue , watergate figure , die at 75 .
nixon administration aide be bagman in cover - up .
update 7 / 28 / 2004 3 : 02 : 00 pm et .
fred larue , a high - ranking nixon administration official who serve a prison term for he role in watergate and be among those rumor to be deep throat , have die .
he be 75 .
he body be discover tuesday by a maid who enter he hotel room in biloxi , coroner gary hargrove say .
the coroner say he believe larue die saturday of natural cause .
larue be know as the bagman who deliver payoff to keep participant in the watergate break - in quiet , and serve 4 month in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
larue serve as special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later head president nixon committee to be - elect the president .
larue be present at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder at nixon vacation home in key biscayne , fla . , where the plan to break in democratic headquarters at the watergate complex in washington allegedly be hatch .
larue say he advise against the burglary .
deep throat connection ?
larue discount rumor that he be deep throat , say the mysterious source for washington post reporter bob woodward and carl bernstein on the watergate story be probably a combination of several people .
woodward say deep throat be a individual and not a composite , and promise to reveal he identity only after the source be dead .
a request for comment from woodward leave with the newspaper wednesday be not immediately return .
among the other people who have be cite as possible deep throat be earl j . silbert , a original watergate prosecutor ; alexander haig , who be nixon chief of staff and ronald reagan secretary of state ; l . patrick gray , the act fbi director who live four block from woodward ; and deputy white house counsel fred fielding .
all have deny it .
after he political career end in scandal , larue return to he home state of mississippus to work in he family oil company and with its real estate holding .
in a interview last summer with the sun herald newspaper , larue say magruder lie when he claim nixon know about the break - in .
magruder claim nixon approve the plan in a telephone conversation with mitchell .
phone call dispute .
larue believe no such conversation occur , say he screen all the telephone call on the getaway to key biscayne .
be exceedingly angry about it .
i not recall any phone call .
i not think there be one , '' he say .
if the president have approve the plan , larue believe that mitchell would have tell he .
there absolutely no way , because of my unique relationship with john and martha mitchell , that he would not have tell I that when i be in key biscayne , '' larue say .
absolutely no way .
i have dinner with the mitchell four or five time a week .
it be not just a political relationship .
it be a very personal relationship . '' .
mark '' deep throat '' feel dead at 95 .
w. mark feel , sr. , the number 2 man at the fbi during the watergate scandal , die yesterday from alzheimer 's disease at a hospice near he home in santa rosa , california , the washington post report .
feel be a instrumental player in the stunning downfall of president nixon , but he identity as '' deep throat '' reporter bob woodard 's anonymous source for the post 's bombshell series of scoop on the watergate affair in 1972-was unknown until three year ago , when feel 's family unmask he in the page of vanity fair .
accord to the time , even woodward be shock at this ; .
he have gaurd the secret so zealously that even he partner carl bernstein do not meet feel until earlier this year .
feel never reveal why he leak detail on the watergate break-in and cover up to woodward , but the time obituary point out that in may 1972 feld have be pass over by nixon as edgar hoover 's successor to run the bureau .
watergate figure fred larue find dead in hotel .
post : thursday , july 29 , 2004 .
fred larue , a high - ranking nixon administration official who serve a prison term for he role in watergate and be among those rumor to be deep throat , have die .
he be 75 .
he body be discover tuesday by a maid who enter he hotel room in biloxi , coroner gary hargrove say .
the coroner say he think larue die saturday of natural cause .
larue be know as the bagman who deliver payoff to keep participant in the watergate break - in quiet and serve 412 month in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
larue serve as special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later head president nixon committee to be - elect the president .
larue discount rumor that he be deep throat , say the source for washington post reporter bob woodward and carl bernstein on the watergate story be probably a combination of people .
w. mark feel , who remain anonymous for more than three decade as the source know as '' deep throat '' in the 1972 watergate scandal that topple richard nixon 's presidency , have die .
feel die at he home in santa rosa , california , thursday , the press democrat newspaper report , cite feel 's grandson nick jone .
feel provide tip and information that guide washington post reporter bob woodward and carl bernstein as they write story stem from the bungle burglary of the democratic party national committee headquarters in 1972 .
president nixon ultimately resign as a consequence of the white house role in the scandal and in the cover-up that follow .
the identity of feel , a former associate director at the federal bureau of investigation , remain a secret until may 2005 , when woodward and bernstein confirm revelation publish in a article in the july issue of vanity fair .
'' because of he position virtually atop the chief investigative agency , he word and guidance have immense , at time even staggering , authority , '' woodward say in a article in the washington post on june 2 , 2005 .
the story of '' deep throat , '' a name borrow from the title of a 1972 pornographic film , assume legendary status as academic and history buff clamor to unlock the enigma that play a role in nixon 's resignation in 1974 .
as early as october 1972 , nixon himself voice suspicion that feel may be leak information to the press and attorney general richard kleindienst have pressured fbi act director l. patrick gray to fire he deputy .
feel deny he role repeatedly and stay at the fbi until he retirement in june 1973 .
'' the thing that stun I be that the goddamn secret have last this long , '' ben bradlee , who oversee almost 400 story on watergate when he be the washington post 's executive editor , say after the may 2005 revelation .
although he know the paper 's source be a high-ranking government official , bradlee do not find out feel 's name until nixon resign .
feel be one of many people rumor to be '' deep throat . '' .
other include alexander haig , nixon 's white house chief of staff ; former national security adviser henry kissinger ; fred fielding , assistant to white house counsel john dean ; and george h.w. bush , the u.s. ambassador to the unite nation at the time .
speculation also surround former u.s. supreme court chief justice william rehnquist , whose poor health coincide with unfounded report that '' deep throat '' be gravely ill .
nixon aide fred larue die at 75 .
publish july 28 , 2004 .
fred larue , a high - ranking nixon administration official who serve a prison term for he role in watergate and be among those rumor to be deep throat , have die .
he be 75 .
he body be discover tuesday by a maid who enter he hotel room in biloxi , coroner gary hargrove say .
the coroner say he believe larue die saturday of natural cause .
larue be know as the bagman who deliver payoff to keep participant in the watergate break - in quiet , and serve 4 month in federal prison for conspiracy to obstruct justice .
larue serve as special assistant to john mitchell , the former attorney general who later head president nixon committee to be - elect the president .
larue be present at a 1972 meeting with mitchell and nixon aide jeb stuart magruder at nixon vacation home in key biscayne , fla . , where the plan to break in democratic headquarters at the watergate complex in washington allegedly be hatch .
larue say he advise against the burglary .
larue discount rumor that he be deep throat , say the mysterious source for washington post reporter bob woodward and carl bernstein on the watergate story be probably a combination of several people .
woodward say deep throat be a individual and not a composite , and promise to reveal he identity only after the source be dead .
among the other people who have be cite as possible deep throat be earl j . silbert , a original watergate prosecutor ; alexander haig , who be nixon chief of staff and ronald reagan secretary of state ; l . patrick gray , the act fbi director who live four block from woodward ; and deputy white house counsel fred fielding .
all have deny it .
after he political career end in scandal , larue return to he home state of mississippus to work in he family oil company and with its real estate holding .
in a interview last summer with the sun herald newspaper , larue say magruder lie when he claim president nixon know about the break - in .
magruder claim nixon approve the plan in a telephone conversation with mitchell .
larue believe no such conversation occur , say he screen all the telephone call on the getaway to key biscayne .
be exceedingly angry about it .
i not recall any phone call .
i not think there be one , '' he say .
if the president have approve the plan , larue believe that mitchell would have tell he .
there absolutely no way , because of my unique relationship with john and martha mitchell , that he would not have tell I that when i be in key biscayne , '' larue say .
absolutely no way .
i have dinner with the mitchell four or five time a week .
it be not just a political relationship .
it be a very personal relationship . '' .
colt clinch playoff berth with 31-24 victory against jaguar .
keiwan ratliff score on a 35-yard interception return last night to give the indianapolis colt a 31-24 win over the jacksonville jaguar and the no. 5 seed position in the national football league playoff .
the colt , trail 14-0 at the start of the second quarter , score 17 unanswered point in the fourth quarter to clinch they eighth straight win .
dallas clark score on a one yard pass and adam vinatieri tie the game at 24-24 with a 45-yard field goal before ratliff intercept a david garrard pass , the only turnover of the game , for the win touchdown .
'' we be grateful for the win , '' colt coach tony dungy say in a post-game broadcast interview .
'' for a long time there it be in doubt . '' .
peyton manning complete 29 of 34 pass for 364 yard and three touchdown as the colt -lrb- 11-4 -rrb- record they sixth come from-behind win this season .
'' we have overcome a lot of obstacle , '' man say .
'' we just keep fight . '' .
the jaguar -lrb- 5-10 -rrb- open the score at jacksonville stadium in the first quarter with a 28-yard pass from garrard to dennis northcutt .
garrard , who complete 28 pass for 329 yard , run for two yard to give jacksonville a 14-0 lead in the second quarter .
man then throw a 41-yard touchdown pass to reggie wayne before jaguar kicker josh scobee make a 44-yard field goal to give jacksonville a 17-7 halftime lead .
man connect with dominic rhode on a 10-yard score pass in the third quarter , which be counter by montell owens 's two-yard run to give the jaguar a 24-14 lead .
the colt dominate the final period .
clark collect a one-yard touchdown pass with 12 minute , 31 seconds remain before vinatieri tie the game and ratliff get the win touchdown .
colt top chief , 20 - 13 , reach playoff .
post dec 23 , 2012 .
indianapolis lose a 10 - point halftime lead at kansas city , but respond down the stretch with a touchdown with 4 : 08 to go to earn a 10th victory and a playoff berth with a 20 - 13 victory .
it be not pretty , but add it up after 60 minute and the colt will be wear they white jersey at least one more time this season .
a reggie wayne seven - yard touchdown reception with just more than four minute remain give the colt a 20 - 13 lead at kansas city , and the defense make it hold up as the 10th win for indianapolis -lrb- 10 - 5 -rrb- clinch a playoff berth .
the colt jump out to a 13 - 3 halftime lead thanks to cornerback darius butler return a interception 32 yard for a touchdown early in the first quarter .
it be butler '' s second interception return for a touchdown this year , and the score tie a colt club record with a total of four on the season .
any chance for a second half without drama quickly be put to rest as the chief -lrb- 2 - 13 -rrb- come out and tie the game with 6 : 00 minute remain in the third quarter .
jamaal charle cut into the deficit on the first play of the half with a 86 - yard touchdown run , the longest rush allow in franchise history .
ryan succop hit a 47 - yard field goal moment later to tie the game .
with the offense struggle to sustain drive , it be the indianapolis defense that stand tall with a stand .
the chief be stuff on a fourth - and - one in colt territory early in the fourth quarter , and the momentum carry over to offensive side of the ball .
the colt embark on a 13 - play , 73 - yard drive that be cap off when quarterback andrew luck find wayne in the back of the end zone for the game - win score .
for the season , the colt be 4 - 4 on the road and move they record to 9 - 1 in one - possession game .
luck also set a nfl rookie record for a season with 4 , 183 pass yard .
defensively , the colt force three turnover , with inside linebacker pat angerer cause a fumble in the first half .
cornerback vontae davis record he first interception in a colt uniform in the third quarter , thwart another chief drive in indianapolis territory .
bruce arian tie a nfl record with nine win as a interim head coach .
arian tie the mark set by hamp pool of the ram in 1952 and wally lemm of houston in 1961 .
indianapolis will close out the regular season next sunday when the houston texan -lrb- 12 - 3 -rrb- head to luca oil stadium .
man pick apart jaguar .
peyton manning be nearly perfect , exactly what the indianapolis colt need to overcome all the emotion the jacksonville jaguar get from richard collier 's return .
man complete he first 17 pass , pick apart jacksonville 's secondary and lead the colt to they eighth consecutive win and seventh straight playoff berth .
man throw for 364 yard and three touchdown , and the visit colt secure the no. 5 seed in the afc playoff with a 31-24 victory over the jaguar on thursday night .
they win without receiver marvin harrison -lrb- hamstring -rrb- , run back joseph addai -lrb- shoulder -rrb- and linebacker gary brackett -lrb- leg -rrb- .
the jaguar -lrb- 5-10 -rrb- lose for the seventh time in the past nine game and fall to 2-6 at home this season .
this one may have be more emotionally drain than any of the other .
collier , a 6-foot-7 offensive linemen paralyze from the waist down follow a shooting in early september , return to the field for the first time and be recognize during pregame ceremony .
he drive onto the field , sit next to he teammate during the national anthem and then head to midfield as a honorary team captain for the coin toss .
'' it be a bittersweet moment , '' collier say .
'' i be here now , but i be not a player anymore .
but it be also great with all the love that be be show from everybody .
it be like i be back at home .
everybody show I love .
it be good . '' .
adam '' pacman '' jone say the herniate disk in he neck that force he to miss dalla ' last game be bother he even before he take a hard hit .
jone be injure in the first quarter two sunday ago at pittsburgh in he first game after a six-week suspension for violate the league 's personal conduct policy .
he finish that game , but test show a herniate disk and there be talk of shut he down for the season .
the short conversation at he locker make for jone ' first public comment since before the alcohol-related scuffle with one of he bodyguard oct. 7 that lead to he suspension .
after not play sunday night against the new york giant , jone return to practice this week after doctor re-evaluate he condition .
he be expect to start at cornerback and return kick saturday night against baltimore .
wide receiver anquan boldin and run back j.j. arrington could be sideline at new england on sunday because of injury .
boldin have a shoulder injury .
arrington have a sore knee .
they both sit out practice wednesday and thursday .
tarvaris jackson have reclaim he start spot at quarterback for minnesota .
coach brad childress say the decision have nothing to do with the health of gus frerotte and everything to do with the way jackson have play the last two week .
the viking need a victory or a chicago loss in the final two week to wrap up they first division title since 2000 .
st. loui place wide receiver and kick returner derek stanley and linebacker gary still on injured reserve .
stanley tear the anterior cruciate ligament in he left knee in sunday 's loss to seattle and be expect to be out six to eight month after surgery .
still have be play with bone chip in he left knee and be schedule to have surgery today .
pro bowl cornerback cortland finnegan be fine $ 25,000 by the nfl for two hard hit on houston quarterback matt schaub last weekend .
indianapolis colt clinch playoff berth with win over kansa city chief .
december 23 , 2012 .
go into week 16 , the indianapolis colt control they own destiny of make it to post - season play .
the colt could clinch a playoff berth with a win over the kansas city chief or a pittsburgh steeler loss .
as they have do all season , the colt refuse to let they fate be decide by anyone other than themselves .
the young team fight hard to defeat the chief in another fourth quarter victory , 20 - 13 .
although they start the game with a three - and - out , the colt be able to light up the scoreboard first .
corner back darius butler intercept brady quinn for a 32 yard defensive touchdown .
this be butler second pick - six of the season , he first against the jacksonville jaguar .
the colt defense be able to keep the chief out of the end zone in the first half .
throughout the game , the chief defense and run game pose a serious threat to the colt shoot at the playoff .
the chief rush for over 350 yard give they two lead run back over 100 yard each .
jamaal charle rush for 226 yard while peyton hilli add 101 .
kansas city emerge from the locker room with a extra burst of energy .
charle kick off the second half with a 86 yard rush touchdown .
despite they intimidating number on the ground , the chief be not able to find any consistency in they passing game .
aside from charle second quarter score , kansas city fail to find themselves in the end zone .
a ryan succop field goal tie the game at 13 late in the third quarter .
after fail to convert on a crucial fourth down , the chief give the colt possession early in the fourth .
as they have do a number of time in the fourth quarter , the colt capitalize on this opportunity .
andrew luck complete he first and only touchdown pass of the day to reggie wayne , put the colt up once again .
in the end , the colt hold on to they 20 - 13 lead , win the game and secure a spot in the playoff .
the colt now will end the season with a double digit number in the win column , five time as many as last season .
indianapolis head coach chuck pagano , be expect to rejoin he team just as they prepare for the post - season .
pagano have prove to be a source of motivation and inspiration to the colt this season .
the odds may be stack against they , the colt certainly have what it take to make the unbelievable happen .
they have overcome a number of obstacle this season , far surpass any expectation place upon they .
the colt will face they division rival , the houston texan , at home in indianapolis for they final game of the regular season .
the colt be defeat by the texan in week 14 .
with a clinched playoff berth , the colt can focus on how they will match up against a playoff - caliber team before wildcard weekend .
chief lose 20 - 13 to colt despite charle '' 226 yard rush .
december 23 , 2012 .
on a day when the kansa city chief rush for the 3rd - most yard in franchise history and the defense play well for 55 minute of the game , the chief lose to the indianapolis colt , 20 - 13 , and keep they grip on the # pick in the 2013 nfl draft .
by beat the chief , indianapolis '' record rise to 9 - 5 and they lock up a playoff spot just one season after post the worst record in the nfl in 2011 -- a chief - like 2 - 14 mark .
meanwhile , the chief lose they 13th game of the season and could tie the franchise mark of 14 loss next week in denver against peyton manning and the bronco .
the 2008 chief end the season with a 2 - 14 record .
on the only positive note for the game , the chief have two player rush for over 100 yard apiece something that hasn '' t happen to the franchise since 1991 .
jamaal charle -lrb- 226 yard -rrb- and peyton hillis -lrb- 101 yard -rrb- lead a powerful attack that , for any team other than the 2012 chief , would have nearly guarantee a victory .
kc end the game with 352 net yard rush .
the 1961 dalla texan rush for 398 yard against houston -lrb- 10 / 1 / 61 -rrb- and the '' 66 squad gain 380 yard rush against denver -lrb- 10 / 23 / 66 -rrb- .
but this year '' s team be undo again by three turnover , a miss field goal , and untimely penalty that wipe out score drive .
brady quinn throw two interception , both of which have a devastating effect on the chief .
the first occur on kansa city '' s open drive when quinn throw behind receiver dexter mccluster and colt cornerback , darius butler , pick it off and return it 32 yard for a touchdown , put indy up 7 - 0 .
quinn '' s second interception of the game come at a crucial point in the 4th quarter with the team trail 13 - 10 and with the ball at the indy 14 - yard line .
quinn underthrew a pass in the end zone to receiver jon baldwin and be pick off by vontae davis for a indianapolis touchback .
yet another potential score opportunity blow for the chief .
quinn throw a third interception -- and he second to davi in consecutive series -- but it be overturn when davis be call for pass interference .
any honest chief fan would say that it be the most '' phantom '' interference penalty ever as davis never appear to touch kc receiver jamar newsome .
kicker ryan succop show he jekyll / hyde nature in the first quarter by nail a 47 - yard field goal that look good the moment he kick it , but then miss a 43 - yarder that would have make the score 7 - 6 .
towards the end of the first half , charle make he only mistake of the day by fumble at the indianapolis 16 - yard line , snuff out another score opportunity with the chief behind 10 - 3 .
the colt turn the fumble into another field goal and go into halftime lead kc , 13 - 3 .
as the second half open , the chief look like they be go to go into self - destruct mode again when return man , devon wylie , inexplicably try to return the second - half kickoff from deep in he own end zone and be swarm under at the 14 - yard line by indy .
the few chief fan remain in the stand undoubtedly think about go home early and get a head start on dinner .
-lrb- personal note : somebody on the special team '' coaching staff need to put leg chain on wylie , who apparently think he be former all - pro return man , dante hall .
wylie bring out every kick and more often than not , doesn '' t get the ball back to the 20 - yard line . -rrb- .
but , show why he be the best player on the team , charle take a handoff around the left end and with some terrific downfield block by baldwin , romp 86 yard for the chief first touchdown in nine quarter of football -- ironically since charle '' 80 - yard td run on the opening play of the cleveland game two week ago .
colt -- 13 , chief -- 10 and a new ballgame .
both defens tighten up in the second half , but the key play of the game come with 10 minute leave in the fourth quarter and the score tie 13 - 13 .
the chief face a 4th - and - inch at the indy 27 - yd line , but despite have hillis and charle in the backfield , coach romeo crennel and offensive coordinator brian daboll decide to have quinn try a quarterback sneak .
quinn be stop short and the colt take the ball over on downs .
it be here that chief fan could see what might have be have they have this awful season last year when colt qb andrew luck be the top prize of the draft .
luck have struggle all day long under pressure from the chief defense and the rookie look very ordinary .
however , when it count , he look like joe montana .
luck calmly lead the colt on a 13 - play drive that culminate in a laser - like td throw to reggie wayne that put the colt up 20 - 13 .
i say that chief fan could only dream of have luck because if there be ever a indictment of the chief qb situation , it come on the next series of downs .
with four minute leave in the game , wylie again bring the kick - off out of the end zone and be tackle at the 10 - yard line .
-lrb- seriously ... somebody cut he now . -rrb- .
with 90 yard to go and two time out -lrb- plus the two - minute warning -rrb- in they pocket the chief put a big red ribbon on this turd of a season for fan by run the follow '' game - win '' play .
1st - and - 10 -- quinn pass incomplete short right to steve maneri .
2nd - and - 10 -- jamaal charle up middle for 2 yard .
3rd - and - 8 -- -lrb- shotgun formation -rrb- peyton hilli around right end for - 2 yard .
4th - and - 10 -- dustin colquitt punt .
so on a day when at least nine nfl quarterback throw for 300 yard or more -lrb- and three throw for 400 -rrb- , the chief wouldn '' t let they # quarterback attempt to win a game with he arm .
one could only assume it '' s because the odds of jamaal charle rip off another 90 - yard run be more likely than any of the stiff play qb for the chief lead a game - win drive .
then , like the grinch that really want to screw the fan holiday , the defense couldn '' t stop the colt offense as indy easily pick up a first down and run out the clock .
luckily for kc fan , the final indignity of the season will end next week when the free agent qb that infamously spurn the chief , peyton manning , lead he 12 - 3 bronco against kc in what may be romeo crennel and scott piolus '' be last game with the chief .
man and the bronco have a legitimate shot at get the # seed in the afc for the playoff , so they not be rest anyone for the last game .
well , at least not until denver be up by four touchdown , which may be halftime .
chief lose 20 - 13 to a fourth quarter indianapolis colt stampede .
sunday 23 dec 2012 .
the kansa city chief lose possibly the best game they '' ve play this season .
they lose to a fourth quarter colt stampede 20 - 13 .
this time it be coach romeo crennel '' s fault .
there they be on the colt 27 - yard line with inch to go for a first down and crennel decide to go for it .
he should have play it safe with a field goal .
they blow it on a quarterback sneak .
the score be tie 13 - 13 .
they hand the ball over to the colt at the 27 - yard line and the colt take it back down the field for a fourth quarter touchdown and win the game .
this be a game that see a great performance by they run back jamaal charle and former razorback peyton hillis .
charle turn in a 86 - yard touchdown run and rush for a total of 226 yard and hillis rush for more than a hundred yard .
put it all together and the chief gain 507 yard and still manage -- through penalty , interception and fumble -- to lose the game .
astounding !
this give the colt a 9 - 5 season and eligibility for the playoff .
i guess it '' be possible to put together a team that so consistently shoot itself in the foot , but the chief be a incredible collection of screwup with a few brilliant player who come out every week and make it look like it might be a football team .
but be usually thwart by the goofup ; some must come off that field shake they head and fondering in frustration .
this be the chief '' last home game of the season , and it would have be nice if they could have win it .
oh well , next week they journey to denver to take on the bronco in they mile high city with they rarified air .
denver be not go to be a pushover .
the bronco be 12 - 3 for the season after defeat the cleveland brown 34 - 12 sunday .
denver be up for the number one seed and the chief down in the basement with a 2 - 13 season .
hope spring eternal ... ... ... ...
peyton manning be nearly perfect , which be exactly what the indianapolis colt need thursday night to overcome the emotion the jacksonville jaguar show with richard collier 's return .
analysis and discussion of the n.f.l. on the new york time pro football blog .
man throw for 364 yard and three touchdown , help the colt secure the no. 5 seed in the american football conference playoff with a 31-24 victory over the jaguar in jacksonville , fla .
collier , a jaguar tackle , be paralyze below the waist after he be shoot in early september .
man complete he first 17 pass in lead the colt to they eighth consecutive victory and seventh straight playoff berth .
indianapolis -lrb- 11-4 -rrb- take its first lead of the game when keiwan ratliff intercept a pass from david garrard and return it 35 yard for a touchdown and a 31-24 lead with 4 minute 48 seconds remain .
the jaguar have two chance to tie the score , but both drive end with sack .
garrard drive jacksonville to the 7-yard line with 29 seconds remain , but maurice jones-drew sprain he knee on a reception , and since the jaguar have no timeout , 10 seconds run off .
garrard misfire on first down , then get sack by dwight freeney to end the game .
the colt overcome a 14-0 deficit in the second quarter and a 24-14 deficit early in the fourth .
they win without receiver marvin harrison -lrb- hamstring -rrb- , run back joseph addai -lrb- shoulder -rrb- and linebacker gary brackett -lrb- leg -rrb- .
two more ram out st. loui lose two more player for the rest of the season , place wide receiver and kick returner derek stanley and linebacker gary still on injured reserve .
the move bring to 12 the number of ram player on injured reserve .
stanley tear the anterior cruciate ligament in he left knee in sunday 's loss to seattle and be expect to be out six to eight month after surgery .
still have be play with bone chip in he left knee and be schedule to have surgery on friday .
offensive tackle jonathan scott be sign by buffalo to fill the roster spot leave open after defensive end aaron schobel be place on injured reserve last week .
scott have six start in 20 appearance over two season with the lion .
dallas cowboy quarterback tony romo say he do not anticipate any problem be ready for the next game , even in a shorten week .
romo say he would be ready saturday night when dallas play its texas stadium finale against the baltimore raven .
run back marion barber do not practice thursday and be consider a game-time decision , as he be a week ago when he have only 2 yard on 8 carry .
barber have be hamper by a broken pinkie toe that force he to miss a game .
tarvaris jackson have reclaim he start spot at quarterback for minnesota .
coach brad childress say the decision have nothing to do with the health of gus frerotte and everything to do with the way jackson have play the last two week .
jackson , who be bench after loss to green bay and indianapolis to start the season , now find himself lead the viking -lrb- 9-5 -rrb- into a crucial game with atlanta on sunday .
a win would give the viking they first n.f.c. north title .
colt beat chief 20 - 13 to clinch playoff berth .
december 23 , 2012 6 : 11 pm .
the expectation place upon andrew luck almost seem unfair .
be the heir to peyton manning in indianapolis be heady stuff for a rookie take the rein of a franchise that win two game last season .
now , after guide the colt back to the playoff - and break cam newton single - season pass record for a first - year player - it safe to say luck exceed just about all of they .
luck throw for 205 yard sunday , and he 7 - yard touchdown pass to reggie wayne on third - and - goal late in the fourth quarter give the colt a 20 - 13 victory over the kansas city chief .
that put they into the playoff without worry about anybody else .
would we have do it without he ? '' colt interim coach bruce arian ask .
no . '' .
luck break newton record of 4 , 051 yard pass in the second quarter .
but it be extend he own rookie record for fourth - quarter comeback to seven be more important .
the chief have rally behind jamaal charle 226 yard rush to tie the game 13 - 13 head into the fourth quarter .
the colt defense stuff quarterback brady quinn on fourth - and - inch to give luck a chance .
that all he need .
after a miserable stretch in which he connect on 1 of 13 pass , the fabulous freshman calmly lead indianapolis -lrb- 10 - 5 -rrb- downfield .
he complete a key pass to t . y . hilton on third down and make two nice throw to wayne before hit the veteran in the back of the end zone .
we have so many opportunity all game , especially on third down , that we squander , '' wayne say .
we want to get that do .
that be the opportune time to do it . '' .
darius butler return a interception 32 yard for the colt other touchdown , help they join the 2008 miamus dolphin as the only team to win at least 10 game after lose 14 or more the previous season .
most of those win have come under arian , who have fill in admirably while chuck pagano undergo treatment for leukemia .
pagano be expect to rejoin the colt this week .
mission accomplish .
that all i can say , '' arian say .
without get emotional again , know that -lrb- pagano -rrb- be go to be back monday , the work week should be as stressful . '' .
charle big day include a 86 - yard touchdown run on the first play of the second half .
it be he second 200 - yard game of the season , and come one week after he manage 10 yard on nine carry against oakland .
it be fun today , compete out there and do it while we be try to come back , '' charle say .
it be fun go out there and put out a performance like that . '' .
charle join the titan chris johnson and former lion great barry sander as the only player with three run of 80 or more yard in a season .
he third career 200 - yard game also set a franchise record , which he have share with larry johnson .
peyton hilli add 101 yard on the ground for the chief -lrb- 2 - 13 -rrb- , who have 352 yard rush in a lose effort - the first time that happen in nfl history .
a big reason why be quinn , who be just 10 of 22 for 162 yard with two interception .
this game be without a doubt , 100 percent on my shoulder , '' he say .
you not play the way i play today and win a football game . '' .
he trouble begin with the chief fifth offensive play , when he throw woefully behind dexter mccluster - who be even look for the ball .
butler pick off the pass in stride , take it untouch to the end zone for a 7 - 0 lead .
kansas city manage a field goal by ryan succop , but he miss he next try and the colt go the other direction to set up the first of adam vinatieri two field goal .
charle fumble in the red zone later in the second quarter , and the colt move into vinatieri range for a 36 - yard field goal and a 13 - 3 halftime lead .
charle electrify a sparse crowd on the first play of the second half .
he angle to the left and then find room down the sideline , cut back toward the middle of the field and win a foot - race with the indianapolis defense for a 86 - yard touchdown run .
the chief be in position to take the lead later in the third quarter , but quinn be pick off by vontae davis in the end zone .
the defense force a three - and - out and kansas city be drive again before settle for succop tie 47 - yard field goal .
the chief get the ball back again late in the fourth quarter , but quinn be stuff on a quarterback sneak on fourth - and - inch from the indianapolis 27 .
that turn the ball over to luck , who complete a 11 - yard pass to t . y . hilton to convert a third down before he and wayne win it .
at time it look a little bleak , '' arian say .
guy hang in there , make play when they have to make they .
offensively we struggle , and then put together a drive , like we have all year . '' .
note : chief wr terrance copper -lrb- left knee -rrb- and dt tyson jackson -lrb- left foot -rrb- leave with injury ... ... ... .
wayne have five catch to become the fifth player in nfl history with four 100 - catch season .
he also become the 14th player to reach 13 , 000 yard receive .
colt clinch playoff spot by beat jag .
quarterback peyton manning be nearly perfect as the colt beat the host jaguar , 31-24 , on thursday night .
man complete he first 17 pass , pick apart jacksonville 's secondary and lead the colt to they eighth consecutive win and seventh straight playoff berth .
the colt -lrb- 11-4 -rrb- secure the no. 5 seed in the afc playoff .
wide receiver anquan boldin and run back j.j. arrington could be sideline for sunday 's game at new england because of injury .
offensive tackle jonathan scott be sign to fill the roster spot leave open after defensive end aaron schobel be place on injured reserve .
adam -lrb- pacman -rrb- jone say the herniate disk in he neck that force he to miss the last game be bother he even before he take a hard hit .
jone be injure in the first quarter two sunday ago at pittsburgh in he first game after a six-week suspension for violate the league 's personal conduct policy .
he finish that game , but test show a disk problem , and there be talk of shut he down for the season .
pro bowl cornerback cortland finnegan have be fine $ 25,000 by the nfl for two hard hit on houston quarterback matt schaub last weekend .
finnegan tell the tennessean he plan to appeal .
the ram lose two more player for the rest of the season , place wide receiver and kick returner derek stanley and linebacker gary still on injured reserve .
defensive end kyle vanden bosch watch practice , two day after have surgery on he groin , and say he feel better .
vanden bosch will miss the last game of the regular season because of a injury .
he expect to be back when the titan host a divisional playoff either jan. 10 or jan. 11 .
colt clinch playoff berth with 20 - 13 win in k . c .
post on december 23 , 2012 , 4 : 42 pm edt .
the connection between quarterback andrew luck and wide receiver reggie wayne have be vital to the colt '' success this season .
it pay off one more time for the game - win play in week 16 .
luck hit wayne for a seven - yard touchdown with just over four minute to play to break a 13 - 13 tie and put the colt on the verge of a playoff berth .
the defense force a three - and - out and rookie run back vick ballard run for a first down to ice the game on the next colt possession .
give the colt defense a lot of credit for this one .
darius butler '' s interception return open the score for they and they stuff chief quarterback brady quinn short on a fourth - and - inch play early in the fourth quarter .
the colt take the ball and go 73 yard in 13 play to set up wayne '' s game - win score .
it have not be a great day for the colt offense to that point , but they be able to come up with the drive they need to punch they postseason ticket .
while you '' be give the defense credit , though , make sure that you '' be careful to note all the chance the defense give kansa city as well .
jamaal charle have 226 yard on 22 carry , include a 86 - yard touchdown run , and peyton hillis run for 101 yard .
give the lack of threat pose by quinn , it '' s pretty damn that the colt couldn '' t keep kansas city from run the ball .
that will likely be something for chuck pagano to worry about .
the head coach be expect to return to work on monday after month away from the team battle leukemia .
fix the run defense before the playoff will be hard , but it '' be a good problem to have after draft first overall last april .
colt top jag to make playoff .
the indianapolis colt will be make they seventh straight playoff appearance after secure that spot with a 31-24 win over the jacksonville jaguar last night in jacksonville .
the colt -lrb- 11-4 -rrb- also win they eighth straight game in defeat the jag -lrb- 5-10 -rrb- who race out to a early 14-0 lead in the game .
in fact , the colt do not take they first lead until former gator defensive back keiwan ratliff intercept a david garrard pass and return it for a touchdown to give the colt a 31-24 lead .
the jag drive down to the colt 7 yard line but a pass to run back maurice jones-drew be complete and he hurt he knee on the play .
the jag have no timeout leave and by injury rule at that time a 10 second clock runoff be institute and the game end .
colt beat chief 20 - 13 , clinch 5th seed in afc playoff .
on dec 23 2012 , 5 : 03p .
andrew luck wield he fourth quarter magic wand yet again , willing colt to victory over hapless chief and into the 2012 playoff !
what a remarkable story .
too bad the game that put the 2012 indianapolis colt into the playoff be such a dud .
but , a win be a win , and prior to the start of the 2012 regular season , very few -lrb- if any ! -rrb- people have the colt win ten game and earn a post - season birth .
on sunday , in they week 16 match - up with a kansas city team some thought would be a playoff contender in 2012 , the colt take care of business and dispatch the chief 20 - 13 .
the key to the game be -lrb- drrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrum roll ... ... ... -rrb- turnover !
kansas city have several .
the colt have zilcho .
two brady quinn interception and a boneheaded fumble by jamaal charle be what win this game for the colt .
that , and some fourth quarter heroics by the offense , but mostly it be kc just be really , really bad .
for the second time this season , darius butler pick off a pass and return it for a td .
in this game , he do it on kc opening driving , scoop the ball off the turf and scampering in from 32 yard out to give the colt a 7 - 0 lead .
unfortunately , the colt offense simply could not sustain drive .
drop pass -lrb- i count three -rrb- be the bane of indy offense early on .
because drive could not be sustain , the chief begin to gash the colt in the run game .
kc blast indy with 352 net rush yard .
three hundred and fifty two !
jesus h . christ !
still , to further illustrate to you , we well - inform reader , how run the football be nearly meaningless in this league , the chief never lead in this game despite run all over a extremely porous and injured colt defense .
part of the reason kc run so effectively be the awful play of pat angerer , how should so obviously be on ir right now it not even funny .
he redeem himself a bit by force a critical fumble late in the second quarter , but that play be mostly the fumble - prone jamaal charle -lrb- 3 on the season -rrb- be careless with the ball .
still , despite three turnover , kc manage to tie the game go itno the fourth .
then , as he have do so many time this year , andrew luck wield he magic wand and will the colt to victory .
the colt offense go on a 13 - play drive start at they own 27 , eat up 6 : 05 of the clock , and cap it off with a 7 - yard touchdown pass from luck to -lrb- who else -rrb- reggie wayne .
ballgame .
20 - 13 .
colt win .
the colt be the second team in nfl history to make the post - season the year after post a 2 - 14 -lrb- or worse -rrb- record the year prior .
andrew luck set a nfl record , throw for 205 yard in the game , swell he season yardage to 4 , 183 .
cam newton in 2011 have the previous record with 4 , 051 yard .
the guy who have it before cam ?
peyton manning in 1998 with 3 , 739 .
luck fourth quarter drive be he 7th game - win drive this season .
that both a rookie record and a nfl record .
no qb have ever have seven game - win drive in one year .
unbelievable .
dwayne allen also get into the record book .
he eclipse ken dilger franchise record for catch by a rookie tight end in one season .
allen have three catch on sunday , bring he season total to 43 .
dilger have 42 in 1995 .
dilger quarterback that year ?
jim harbaugh , the man who would go on to recruit andrew luck at stanford before go to to coach the san francisco 49ers .
with the win in kc , couple with the steeler lose to the bengal 13 - 10 , all the team in the afc playoff be set .
also lock up be the no . 5 seed for the colt .
they will face the no . 4 seed , which could mean a trip to baltimore to face the raven , the team chuck pagano use to coach for .
speaking of pagano , he be schedule to return to work full - time tomorrow as the head coach after take a leave of absence to battle leukemia .
he cancer be now in remission , and he return to a team that be bind for the post - season .
wonderful story .
wonderful season .
could ask for anything more .
well , except one thing ... ... ...
win in the playoff !
go colt .
precision and perfection define colt quaterback peyton manning 's start against the jacksonville jaguar he complete he first 17 pass .
meanwhile , inconsistency and a inability to score at the end of the game define jaguar quarterback david garrard 's thursday night .
'' it be a 60-minute game -- he play a really good game for 31/2 31/2 quarter , '' colt defensive back antoine bethea say .
the jaguar lead for three quarter , but 17 unanswered point in the fourth do they in .
man complete 29 of 34 pass for 364 yard and 3 touchdown in the colt ' 31-24 victory over the jaguar at jacksonville municipal stadium .
jacksonville fall to 5-10 on its way to its first losing year since coach jack del rio 's initial season -lrb- 5-11 -rrb- in 2003 .
the loss end a sordid home campaign in which the jaguar go 2-6 .
the colt -lrb- 11-4 -rrb- , on a eight-game winning streak , clinch a playoff berth .
tony dungy become the first coach since the 1970 merger to take he team to the playoff in 10 consecutive year .
garrard throw for a career-high 329 yard , but late in the fourth quarter he make costly mistake .
after score on four of they first five drive , include they first two , the jaguar punt to start the fourth quarter .
on they next drive , with 4:48 remain in the game , garrard throw a interception to defensive back keiwan ratliff , who return the pick 35 yard for a touchdown .
'' it be actually man-coverage , and he make a smart play by drop off of dennis -lsb- northcutt -rsb- , '' garrard say .
'' you never see that in man coverage .
they know we like the slant game on that down and distance and they watch tape . '' .
the score give indianapolis its first lead of the game .
garrard finish with 28 completion on 41 attempt , a touchdown and a interception .
the jaguar have one final chance to win the game , field a colt punt with 2:34 remain .
but with 12 seconds leave , garrard drop back to pass and find colt defensive end dwight freeney on top of he , nine yard behind the line of scrimmage .
the sack end the game .
'' i do not even see it come , '' garrard say .
'' so i could not use my leg to make a play . '' .
for the second home game in a row , the jaguar start aggressively .
they win the coin toss , and then elect to receive , just like they do against the green bay packer on sunday .
then they score immediately , just like they do on sunday .
on they second drive , the jaguar score again , jump to a 14-0 lead with a 2-yard touchdown run by garrard .
despite the colt ' pass perfection , indianapolis could not score .
'' this be a funny game , '' man say .
'' we be complete some pass , but be down 14-0 .
so that dominate we thought . '' .
in the second half , man really go to work .
he throw two touchdown pass and set up a game-tying 45-yard field goal by adam vinatieri .
and any time the colt need something to happen , they go to they passing game .
run play be unreliable .
the jaguar could stop those .
the colt gain just 32 yard rush .
but the pass baffle the jaguar ' defense , sailing at the most important time to exactly where they need to be .
'' peyton manning be a good quarterback , '' jaguar safety reggie nelson say .
'' he have always be good .
that be what he do . '' .
colt clinch playoff spot with 20 - 13 win over chief .
on dec 23 2012 , 6 : 11p .
the indianapolis colt clinch a playoff spot and the five seed in the afc playoff with a 20 - 13 win over the kansas city chief on another andrew luck game - win drive , he seventh of the season .
a year ago , the indianapolis colt be a nfl - worst 2 - 14 and do not figure to be much better this season .
but fifteen game later and the colt stand at 10 - 5 and in the playoff as the afc five seed .
it be the representation of a incredible sesaon that will be extend beyond just next week .
the colt get the win today , but it be pretty .
in fact , accord to pro football reference , it be the first time in nfl history that a team rush for over 350 yard and lose the game .
the colt be outplay on both side of the ball , but when it count andrew luck and the colt get it do .
check out some note from the game .
andrew luck be terrible for a stretch in the game that include 10 straight incompletion .
but after that he get hot at just the right time and hit he last 6 pass of the day , cap off by a 7 - yard touchdown pass to reggie wayne in the back of the end zone for what prove to be the game win score with four minute leave .
he end the day 17 / 35 for 205 yard and the touchdown along with 6 carry for 21 yard .
for the second week in a row he do not turn the ball over , which be huge .
and he also set the nfl rookie record for most pass yard in a season with 4 , 051 yard - break cam newton record set a year ago .
dwayne allen also set a colt rookie record for reception by a tight end with 43 .
allen have have a tremendous rookie year .
he have a bright future ahead of he .
cassius vaughn and pat angerer both be terrible today .
there be other as well , but those two be the one that really stick out .
basically , however , the whole defense stink today .
the colt give up 507 total yard , 352 of they on the ground .
it be the worst run defense i have see the colt play since that now infamous debacle in jacksonville in 2006 .
simply must improve .
that say , the colt win the turnover battle 3 - 0 over the chief .
darius butler pick off a terrible brady quinn throw and take it back 32 yard for a score .
it be butler 4th pick of the year and the 2nd one he return for a touchdown .
pat angerer also force a big fumble with the chief in the red zone and threaten that lead to 3 point for the colt before the half .
and then the 3rd turnover be a pick by vontae davis .
when you have a +3 turnover differential , you be go to win most game .
it will be huge if the colt could keep that up .
the wide receiver really do help out andrew luck today .
they drop several pass -lrb- reggie wayne include -rrb- and fail to get open numerous other time .
while it look like a bad game from luck , i place more of the blame on the receiver in this one .
nothing be open .
however , on the final drive , once reggie wayne start get involve , the colt start roll .
on the last drive he catch 3 pass for 37 yard and a touchdown .
prior to that he have catch 2 pass for 44 .
the key be that once the colt get reggie involve , good thing happen .
this game be andrew luck 7th game - win drive of the season , tie a nfl record - not just a rookie record .
peyton manning do it twice .
incredibly , if luck lead a game win drive next week in a very winnable game for the colt , he would have the nfl record all to himself - as a rookie .
add to that fact be that the colt be 8 - 1 in game decide by one score or less - the only loss come in week 3 on that last - minute 80 yard touchdown pass by the jaguar after luck have lead another go - ahead score drive late in the 4th quarter .
chuck pagano return tomorrow .
what a moment that will be tomorrow when pagano walk into the locker room and be hand the head coaching reign once again .
and what a moment that will be next sunday when he take the field for the first time since week 3 .
colt nation have support he all the way , as have the nfl .
next sunday , the division rival houston texan come to luca oil stadium have never win in indy .
this be a game that before the season i even think the colt would win - back when i think they would get 7 win all year .
they can beat the texan , and with pagano come back , that will be a special game .
great job , bruce arian .
tremendous .
now my piece of advice to the colt - not stop be chuckstrong .
pagano certainly not .
harrison out against jaguar .
indianapolis colt wide receiver marvin harrison do not play in thursday night 's 31-24 win over jacksonville due to a hamstring injury .
harrison , who have not miss a game all season , be list as one of the inactive player .
he have 53 catch for 605 yard and five touchdown .
he suffer the hamstring injury sunday in a victory over detroit .
the colt , winner of eight straight game , clinch a playoff spot thursday .
colt beat chief 20 - 13 to clinch playoff berth .
12 / 23 / 12 06 : 03 pm et est .
the expectation place upon andrew luck almost seem unfair .
be the heir to peyton manning in indianapolis be heady stuff for a rookie take the rein of a franchise that win two game last season .
now , after guide the colt back to the playoff -- and break cam newton single - season pass record for a first - year player -- it safe to say luck exceed just about all of they .
luck throw for 205 yard sunday , and he 7 - yard touchdown pass to reggie wayne on third - and - goal late in the fourth quarter give the colt a 20 - 13 victory over the kansas city chief .
that put they into the playoff without worry about anybody else .
would we have do it without he ? '' colt interim coach bruce arian ask .
no . '' .
luck break newton record of 4 , 051 yard pass in the second quarter .
but it be extend he own rookie record for fourth - quarter comeback to seven be more important .
the chief have rally behind jamaal charle 226 yard rush to tie the game 13 - 13 head into the fourth quarter .
the colt defense stuff quarterback brady quinn on fourth - and - inch to give luck a chance .
that all he need .
after a miserable stretch in which he connect on 1 of 13 pass , the fabulous freshman calmly lead indianapolis -lrb- 10 - 5 -rrb- downfield .
he complete a key pass to t . y . hilton on third down and make two nice throw to wayne before hit the veteran in the back of the end zone .
we have so many opportunity all game , especially on third down , that we squander , '' wayne say .
we want to get that do .
that be the opportune time to do it . '' .
darius butler return a interception 32 yard for the colt other touchdown , help they join the 2008 miamus dolphin as the only team to win at least 10 game after lose 14 or more the previous season .
most of those win have come under arian , who have fill in admirably while chuck pagano undergo treatment for leukemia .
pagano be expect to rejoin the colt this week .
mission accomplish .
that all i can say , '' arian say .
without get emotional again , know that -lrb- pagano -rrb- be go to be back monday , the work week should be as stressful . '' .
charle big day include a 86 - yard touchdown run on the first play of the second half .
it be he second 200 - yard game of the season , and come one week after he manage 10 yard on nine carry against oakland .
it be fun today , compete out there and do it while we be try to come back , '' charle say .
it be fun go out there and put out a performance like that . '' .
charle join the titan chris johnson and former lion great barry sander as the only player with three run of 80 or more yard in a season .
he third career 200 - yard game also set a franchise record , which he have share with larry johnson .
peyton hilli add 101 yard on the ground for the chief -lrb- 2 - 13 -rrb- , who have 352 yard rush in a lose effort -- the first time that happen in nfl history .
a big reason why be quinn , who be just 10 of 22 for 162 yard with two interception .
this game be without a doubt , 100 percent on my shoulder , '' he say .
you not play the way i play today and win a football game . '' .
he trouble begin with the chief fifth offensive play , when he throw woefully behind dexter mccluster -- who be even look for the ball .
butler pick off the pass in stride , take it untouch to the end zone for a 7 - 0 lead .
kansas city manage a field goal by ryan succop , but he miss he next try and the colt go the other direction to set up the first of adam vinatieri two field goal .
charle fumble in the red zone later in the second quarter , and the colt move into vinatieri range for a 36 - yard field goal and a 13 - 3 halftime lead .
charle electrify a sparse crowd on the first play of the second half .
he angle to the left and then find room down the sideline , cut back toward the middle of the field and win a foot - race with the indianapolis defense for a 86 - yard touchdown run .
the chief be in position to take the lead later in the third quarter , but quinn be pick off by vontae davis in the end zone .
the defense force a three - and - out and kansas city be drive again before settle for succop tie 47 - yard field goal .
the chief get the ball back again late in the fourth quarter , but quinn be stuff on a quarterback sneak on fourth - and - inch from the indianapolis 27 .
that turn the ball over to luck , who complete a 11 - yard pass to t . y . hilton to convert a third down before he and wayne win it .
at time it look a little bleak , '' arian say .
guy hang in there , make play when they have to make they .
offensively we struggle , and then put together a drive , like we have all year . '' .
note : chief wr terrance copper -lrb- left knee -rrb- and dt tyson jackson -lrb- left foot -rrb- leave with injury ... ... ... .
wayne have five catch to become the fifth player in nfl history with four 100 - catch season .
he also become the 14th player to reach 13 , 000 yard receive .
man on the money , colt lock up 5th seed .
lock up the no. 5 seed in the afc playoff , peyton manning complete 29-of-34 pass for 364 yard and three touchdown to lead the colt over the jaguar in week 16 .
man be feel it tonight .
he complete he first 17 pass , all of they on the money as he methodically take the jag defense apart .
firing beautiful pass after beautiful pass , this be vintage peyton in he best game of the season -- and quite possibly the most accurate performance of he illustrious career .
manning have the indy passing game well-tuned for the playoff , but he be likely to close out the season on the bench next week .
if so , he late-season flourish leave he with 3,907 yard and 26 touchdown in 15 game dec. 18 - 11:14 pm et .
colt beat chief 20 - 13 to clinch playoff berth .
dec . 24 4 : 33 be est .
andrew luck could help but smile think about the joyous celebration take place just down the hall , through the big metal door mark the entrance to the colt locker room .
even interim coach bruce arian have be dance .
it a fun locker room , a great locker room , '' luck say after lead indianapolis to a 20 - 13 victory over kansa city .
you know guy be go to play hard no matter what the score , no matter what the situation , and i be very proud to be a part of a team like that . '' .
a team that head back to the playoff , too .
luck throw for 205 yard on sunday , break cam newton single - season mark for yard by a first - year quarterback .
he also engineer the go - ahead drive late in the fourth quarter , hit reggie wayne on third - and - goal from the kansas city 7 with just over 4 minute remain .
the touchdown pass finish off luck seventh four - quarter comeback this season , and allow the colt -lrb- 10 - 5 -rrb- to join the miami dolphin of 2008 as the only team in nfl history to win at least 10 game one year after lose 14 or more .
would we have do it without he ? '' arian ask .
no . '' .
luck break newton record of 4 , 051 yard pass in the second quarter , and then become the fifth rookie quarterback in the super bowl era to win at least 10 game in a season .
obviously it nicer to be in the playoff , '' luck say , but it nice to have a couple record -- which be sure will be break in the next year . '' .
not be quite so sure .
luck still have next sunday game against houston to pile up number , and then come a trip to the playoff , where the colt become a mainstay under he predecessor , peyton manning .
we do want to slide in the backdoor and put the extra stress on a man have to win the next game , '' luck say .
so we be very glad to be go to the postseason . '' .
arian will also get a reprieve from shoulder so much of the burden .
colt coach chuck pagano , who have undergo treatment for leukemia , plan to rejoin the team this week .
jamaal charle run for 226 yard for the chief , include a 84 - yard scamper on the first play of the second half as he team rally to forge a 13 - all tie enter the fourth quarter .
it be charle second 200 - yard game of the season , and the third of he career , and come one week after he manage 10 yard on nine carry against oakland .
it be fun today , compete out there and do it while we be try to come back , '' charle say .
it be fun go out there and put out a performance like that . '' .
charle join the titan chris johnson and former lion great barry sander as the only player with three run of 80 or more yard in a season .
peyton hilli add 101 yard on the ground for the chief -lrb- 2 - 13 -rrb- , who finish with 352 yard rush in a lose effort .
a big reason why be brady quinn , who be just 10 of 22 for 162 yard with two interception through the air .
this game be without a doubt , 100 percent on my shoulder , '' quinn say .
you not play the way i play today and win a football game . '' .
he trouble begin with the chief fifth offensive play , when he throw woefully behind dexter mccluster -- who be even look for the ball .
darius butler pick off the pass in stride , and take it untouch 32 yard to give the colt a 7 - 0 lead .
kansas city manage a field goal by ryan succop , but he miss he next try and the colt go the other direction to set up the first of adam vinatieri two field goal .
charle fumble in the red zone later in the second quarter , and the colt move into vinatieri range for a 36 - yard field goal and a 13 - 3 halftime lead .
charle electrify a sparse crowd on the first play of the second half .
he angle to the left and then find room down the sideline , cut back toward the middle of the field and win a foot - race with the indianapolis defense for a 86 - yard touchdown run .
the chief be in position to take the lead later in the third quarter , but quinn be pick off by vontae davis in the end zone .
the defense force a three - and - out and kansas city be drive again before settle for succop tie 47 - yard field goal .
the chief get the ball back again late in the fourth quarter , but quinn be stuff on a quarterback sneak on fourth - and - inch from the indianapolis 27 .
that turn the ball over to luck , who complete a 11 - yard pass to t . y . hilton to convert a third down before he and wayne win it .
at time it look a little bleak , '' arian say .
guy hang in there , make play when they have to make they .
offensively we struggle , and then put together a drive , like we have all year . '' .
note : chief wr terrance copper -lrb- left knee -rrb- and dt tyson jackson -lrb- left foot -rrb- leave with injury ... ... ... .
wayne have five catch to become the fifth player in nfl history with four 100 - catch season .
he also become the 14th player to reach 13 , 000 yard receive .
efficient peyton manning pass colt past jag .
peyton manning pass for 364 yard and three touchdown and keiwan ratliff return a interception 35-yard for a pick-six with just under five minute leave to carry the indianapolis colt over the jacksonville jaguar 31-24 thursday night .
man start the game 17-for-17 to fall one completion short of the nfl record with 23 straight date back to last sunday .
donovan mcnabb hold the record with 24 straight completion , set in 2006 .
reggie wayne get 108 yard receive and a touchdown while dallas clark follow up he franchise-best tight end performance sunday with another strong game , finish with 105 yard and a touchdown .
the jaguar maurice jones-drew get 20 carry for 91 yard and david garrard throw for 329 yard and a touchdown , but give up a costly interception that provide the difference .
indianapolis -lrb- 11-4 -rrb- make a nfl-best fourth double-digit comeback this season to lock up the five seed in the afc with this win , they eighth straight .
the colt defense look shaky and give up 409 yard , but get the game-winning interception and two late fourth-quarter sack to seal the win .
luck throw for 205 yard , 4th - quarter td as colt beat chief 20 - 13 to clinch playoff spot .
publish december 23 , 2012 .
andrew luck throw for 205 yard to break the single - season rookie record , and he touchdown pass to reggie wayne late in the fourth quarter sunday give the indianapolis colt a 20 - 13 win over the kansas city chief and a berth in the playoff .
luck surpass cam newton year - old record of 4 , 051 yard pass by a rookie in the second quarter , and then come through in the closing minute .
he march indy to the chief 7 , and then find wayne in the back of the end zone on third - and - goal for the go - ahead score .
it be the seventh time luck have rally he team to victory in the fourth quarter .
darius butler return a interception 32 yard for a td in help the colt -lrb- 10 - 5 -rrb- join the 2008 miamus dolphin as the only nfl team to win at least 10 game after lose 14 or more the previous season .
game slip away late as jaguar fall to indy .
late sack , too much manning give colt comeback win .
the jaguar could not make the big play and give up the big play .
that be a all-too-familiar scenario thursday night in a frustrating 31-24 defeat to the indianapolis colt .
the jaguar battle the colt toe-to-toe for almost 55 minute , but with the score tie 24-24 , they could not finish off the colt .
first , keiwan ratliff fool david garrard when he make a coverage move he have not make all season , intercept the pass and run 35 yard for the touchdown .
after the team trade punt , the jaguar advance from they 10 to the colt 17 with 48 seconds leave when garrard spike the ball .
again , the jaguar could not come up with the play to tie the game .
coach jack del rio have already decide to go for two and the victory if the jaguar have score a touchdown .
on second down , maurice draw run for 10 yard to the 7 for a first down , but suffer a bruised leg on the play and have to come out .
that cause a 10-second runoff because the jaguar be out of timeout so they have a first down on the 7 with 17 seconds leave .
garrard then throw the ball away over the head of reggie william in the back of the end zone because he be try to avoid a interception .
he later say he regret not give william a chance to make the play .
'' as i be release the ball to reggie i be pretty much throw it away because the safety be high , and then at the last second , he -lrb- safety -rrb- darts down to my underneath guy and i be think , he be not even play reggie .
those be play you want to say , just give he a chance . ' .
i think it be not the best coverage -lsb- to throw into -rsb- so go to the next down , '' he say .
that leave the jaguar with 12 seconds leave , still time for two pass in the end zone .
but garrard be sack on second down and the clock run out before he could call another play .
'' it be tough .
you do not want to end the game on a sack when you be on the seven-yard line .
it be kind of how the season have be .
so close , so close and then a sack at the end of the game , '' garrard say .
that be the difference between the colt -lrb- 11-4 -rrb- clinch a playoff berth with they eighth consecutive victory and the jaguar fall to 5-10 .
that mean they will have double digit loss for the first time since they go 5-11 in del rio 's first season .
they be now 24-23 in the regular season the last three year and finish 2-4 in the afc south for the third consecutive season .
garrard complete 28 of 41 pass for 329 yard and a touchdown and a 90.4 passer rating .
but he be not a match for peyton manning , who complete 29 of 34 for 364 yard and three touchdown .
of the ratliff interception , garrard say , '' you do not want to put you team in that situation where you let the guy pick it off and run it back for a touchdown .
they make a good play .
it be actually man-coverage and he make a smart play by drop off dennis -lsb- northcutt -rsb- .
you never see that in man coverage and that be a smart play by he .
they know we like the slant game so on that down and distance , they watch tape .
he just make a good play . '' .
ratliff , a former univerasity of florida standout , say he do not know if garrard see he , but get good block once he make the interception and score easily .
'' i think we be go to have a shot to win the game , but we come up a little short , '' del rio say .
del rio add the jaguar give up too many '' gim I '' play like reggie wayne 's 41-yard touchdown catch when he be wide open down the right sideline in the first half .
'' that be one area we have come up short all year on , '' del rio say .
'' we have too many gimme mix in there .
that be kind of plague we all year . '' .
the jaguar score touchdown on they first two drive and then tack on a josh scobee field goal with one second leave in the first half for a 17-7 lead at halftime .
dennis northcutt , who catch five pass for 127 yard against the packer last week in he first start of the season , continue to make a big difference in the passing game .
he catch five pass for 68 yard in the first half .
he wind up with eight catch for 101 yard ratliff say he be surprise the jaguar do not throw to northcutt more .
the jaguar get a emotional lift when offensive lineman richard collier , whose career end when he be shoot in september , visit the team wednesday night and come out for the coin toss at the start of the game .
linebacker mike peterson , probably play he final game at municipal stadium , say he have to fight back the tear after see collier .
colt clinch playoff berth with 20 - 13 win over chief .
post on : 3 : 35 pm , december 23 , 2012 .
despite rush for 352 yard , the kansa city chief lose they home finale to the indianapolis colt at arrowhead stadium on sunday afternoon .
the colt -lrb- 10 - 5 , 4 - 4 away -rrb- own the nfl '' s worst record last year , and clinch a spot in the playoff with sunday '' be win .
with 4 : 08 to play in the fourth quarter , rookie quarterback andrew luck find wide receiver reggie wayne for a seven - yard touchdown pass , cap the 73 - yard game win drive .
luck also set a new record for most single - season pass yard by a rookie in the process .
carolina panther qb cam newton hold the previous record at 4 , 051 yard .
the chief -lrb- 2 - 13 , 1 - 7 home -rrb- almost get to play the role of the grinch in chief red .
however , a chief win would '' ve likely cost they the first overall pick in the 2013 nfl draft .
the chief be currently in line for the first overall pick , own the tiebreaker over the jacksonville jaguar -lrb- 2 - 13 -rrb- .
after hold indianapolis to three and out to start the game , chief qb brady quinn throw a pick six to cornerback darius butler , who return the interception 32 yard for a td .
the chief go on a 68 - yard drive midway through the second quarter , but the drive be halt when run back jamaal charle lose a fumble on the colt 16 - yard line .
indy lead 13 - 3 at the half , but kansas city open up the second half in a big way .
on the first play from scrimmage , charle break off a 86 - yd td run to trim the deficit to 13 - 10 .
the chief go on a 67 - yd drive on they next possession , but cb vontae davis intercept quinn '' s pass in the end zone .
kicker ryan succop tie the game at 13 - 13 with a 47 - yd field goal with 10 : 03 to play in the third quarter , and it stay that way until the colt '' game win drive in the fourth .
charle '' 226 yard rush be good for the third most in a single game in franchise history .
he also hold spot one and two on the all - time list .
rb peyton hillis rush for 101 yard .
the chief rack up a total of 507 yard on offense .
the chief will play they season finale against the denver bronco next sunday afternoon at sport authority field at mile high .
man guide indianapoli to eighth straight win .
peyton manning help inspire the indianapolis colt to they eighth straight win of the season as they overcome jacksonville 31-24 on thursday to reach the play-off .
man finish with 29-of-34 after complete he first 17 pass and throw for 364 yard , include three touchdown .
and man be full of praise of the side after they fight back from 14-0 and 24-14 down to clinch a place in the play-off as the fifth seed in the afc .
'' it be a funny game , we be complete some pass but we be down 14-0 , '' man say .
'' the crowd be into it and jacksonville be always tough here at home .
'' it be be a very different season .
for we to win eight in a row , it be what we have to do , we have no choice but to do that and have a chance to get into the play-off .
'' you never take win for grant .
it be hard to win one game and it be extremely hard to win eight in a row like we do . '' .
the colt have look like they would suffer they first defeat in eight game as they enter the final quarter 10 point down .
however man 's one-yard touchdown pass to tight end dalla clark and adam vinatieri 's 45-yard field goal tie the score .
and with just under five minute remain , keiwan ratliff intercept quarterback david garrard 's pass and race in from 35 yard out for the match-clinching touchdown .
garrard , who rush for a score , finish with 28-of-41 for 329 yard with one touchdown and one interception for jacksonville .
and colt coach tony dungy add : '' it be be a long fight back from -lrb- start the year -rrb- 3-4 .
'' i like where we be right now .
peyton manning be unbelievable , and we defense make some play in the fourth quarter when they have to . '' .
colt beat chief 20 - 13 to clinch playoff berth .
the expectation place upon andrew luck almost seem unfair .
be the heir to peyton manning in indianapolis be heady stuff for a rookie take the rein of a franchise that win two game last season .
now , after guide the colt back to the playoff - and break cam newton 's single - season pass record for a first - year player - it safe to say luck exceed just about all of they .
luck throw for 205 yard sunday , and he 7 - yard touchdown pass to reggie wayne on third - and - goal late in the fourth quarter give the colt a 20 - 13 victory over the kansas city chief .
that put they into the playoff without worry about anybody else .
would we have do it without he ? '' colt interim coach bruce arian ask .
no . '' .
luck break newton record of 4 , 051 yard pass in the second quarter .
but it be extend he own rookie record for fourth - quarter comeback to seven be more important .
the chief have rally behind jamaal charle ' 226 yard rush to tie the game 13 - 13 head into the fourth quarter .
the colt defense stuff quarterback brady quinn on fourth - and - inch to give luck a chance .
that all he need .
after a miserable stretch in which he connect on 1 of 13 pass , the fabulous freshman calmly lead indianapolis -lrb- 10 - 5 -rrb- downfield .
he complete a key pass to t . y . hilton on third down and make two nice throw to wayne before hit the veteran in the back of the end zone .
we have so many opportunity all game , especially on third down , that we squander , '' wayne say .
we want to get that do .
that be the opportune time to do it . '' .
darius butler return a interception 32 yard for the colt other touchdown , help they join the 2008 miamus dolphin as the only team to win at least 10 game after lose 14 or more the previous season .
most of those win have come under arian , who have fill in admirably while chuck pagano undergo treatment for leukemia .
pagano be expect to rejoin the colt this week .
mission accomplish .
that all i can say , '' arian say .
without get emotional again , know that -lrb- pagano -rrb- be go to be back monday , the work week should be as stressful . '' .
charle big day include a 86 - yard touchdown run on the first play of the second half .
it be he second 200 - yard game of the season , and come one week after he manage 10 yard on nine carry against oakland .
it be fun today , compete out there and do it while we be try to come back , '' charle say .
it be fun go out there and put out a performance like that . '' .
charle join the titan chris johnson and former lion great barry sander as the only player with three run of 80 or more yard in a season .
he third career 200 - yard game also set a franchise record , which he have share with larry johnson .
peyton hilli add 101 yard on the ground for the chief -lrb- 2 - 13 -rrb- , who have 352 yard rush in a lose effort - the first time that happen in nfl history .
a big reason why be quinn , who be just 10 of 22 for 162 yard with two interception .
this game be without a doubt , 100 percent on my shoulder , '' he say .
you not play the way i play today and win a football game . '' .
he trouble begin with the chief fifth offensive play , when he throw woefully behind dexter mccluster - who be even look for the ball .
butler pick off the pass in stride , take it untouch to the end zone for a 7 - 0 lead .
kansas city manage a field goal by ryan succop , but he miss he next try and the colt go the other direction to set up the first of adam vinatieri 's two field goal .
charle fumble in the red zone later in the second quarter , and the colt move into vinatieri range for a 36 - yard field goal and a 13 - 3 halftime lead .
charle electrify a sparse crowd on the first play of the second half .
he angle to the left and then find room down the sideline , cut back toward the middle of the field and win a foot - race with the indianapolis defense for a 86 - yard touchdown run .
the chief be in position to take the lead later in the third quarter , but quinn be pick off by vontae davis in the end zone .
the defense force a three - and - out and kansas city be drive again before settle for succop tie 47 - yard field goal .
the chief get the ball back again late in the fourth quarter , but quinn be stuff on a quarterback sneak on fourth - and - inch from the indianapolis 27 .
that turn the ball over to luck , who complete a 11 - yard pass to t . y . hilton to convert a third down before he and wayne win it .
at time it look a little bleak , '' arian say .
guy hang in there , make play when they have to make they .
offensively we struggle , and then put together a drive , like we have all year . '' .
note : chief wr terrance copper -lrb- left knee -rrb- and dt tyson jackson -lrb- left foot -rrb- leave with injury ... ... ... .
wayne have five catch to become the fifth player in nfl history with four 100 - catch season .
he also become the 14th player to reach 13 , 000 yard receive .
texa prisoner capture after week on the run .
7 : 15 a . m . dec . 7 , 2009 .
a convict sex offender who be the subject of a weeklong manhunt after pull off a daring escape during a prison transfer be capture monday after authority receive several phone tip , include one from a salesman who recognize the inmate outside he business .
a hungry , wet and barefoot arcade joseph comeaux jr . be catch in northeast houston , about 25 mile northwest of where he escape , say alfredo perez , a spokesman for the u . s . marshal service .
comeaux , 49 , be in a wheelchair nov . 30 when he pull a gun on two guard and fire it during a transfer from a prison unit in huntsville to one in beaumont .
the guard , who be unharmed , be force to drive to the baytown area , where comeaux take they weapon , handcuff they together and run away .
comeaux be serve a sentence of life in prison for a 1998 aggravate sexual assault conviction in brazo county , northwest of houston .
he be give two extra life sentence after be convict of stab he wife and another person in 1999 while she visit he in prison .
12 january 2010 @ 09 : 29 pm .
fallout continue after brazen escape .
the texas department of criminal justice have make sweeping leadership change at a huntsville prison where a inmate manage to get a gun that he later use to escape , the agency announce tuesday .
the nov . 30 escape by arcade joseph comeaux jr . , a convict rapist recapture last month after eight day on the run in baytown and houston , have lead to unprecedented fallout at the prison unit where he be house , with the largest number of tdcj employee ever face termination or disciplinary action because of a single incident , say tdcj inspector general john moriarty .
comeaux , 49 , escape from a prison van in baytown after he pull a gun on two tdcj officer drive he to another prison in beaumont .
he be at large until dec . 7 , when he be find shoeless , wet and hungry at a north houston business , where he ask to use the phone .
so far , 11 estelle unit employee have be recommend for termination or face consequence related to comeaux escape .
four of those elect to retire instead of face disciplinary action , include the two officer who drive comeaux in the van on the day he escape .
whitmire question why several prison , include the estelle unit , stop search visitor two month before comeaux escape and move to random pat - downs .
since comeaux jailbreak , all visitor and employee at the estelle prison unit be again subject to mandatory pat - downs , lyon say .
after more than three year and a tangled trail of frustrating legal delay , the man who kill four people in a brazen courthouse escape be sentence saturday to prison for life without parole and hundred of year more .
yet prosecutor who spend the last month urge juror to sentence one of atlanta 's most notorious criminal to death be not celebrate .
'' the community have speak , '' fulton county district attorney paul howard say at a emotional press conference after the sentencing of brian nichol .
'' even though we be puzzle and terribly disappoint by the decision , we must accept the conclusion provide by we community . '' .
it show how difficult it be to get a capital sentence in atlanta 's fulton county , where death penalty be rare even in a state where support for capital punishment be widespread .
georgia tie for third in carry out execution last year .
and it underscore the problem georgia prosecutor say they frequently face with the requirement that death sentence can only be return by unanimous jury verdict .
nichol , 37 , be find guilty last month of murder a judge , a court reporter , a sheriff 's deputy and a federal agent in the march 2005 rampage .
after four day deliberate on whether to recommend the death penalty , the jury deadlock at 9-3 .
nichol will likely die in prison after superior court judge jame bodiford hand down the maximum prison sentence on each of 54 charge .
the deadlock devastate prosecutor , who have turn down a offer from nichol ' attorney to plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence .
the trial have already cost more than $ 2 million , likely the most expensive in state history .
and it may not be over yet .
howard say he be talk to the u.s. attorney about a federal death penalty trial for the federal agent 's slaying .
in the meantime , howard and some state legislative leader say georgia 's death penalty rule should be change .
'' georgia be a conservative state , but there be pocket where it be not , '' say state rep. barry fleming , a republican who lead a fail bid last year to allow judge to approve death penalty even if one or two juror vote against it .
'' there be people who will attempt to nullify the law when they get on the jury . '' .
the last time a fulton county jury issue a death sentence be eight year ago , and only then for a triple murderer who kill a toddler .
one factor could be race .
the county be 43 percent black , and numerous poll and survey have find that black be more likely than whites to oppose capital punishment .
eight of the juror be black .
the three who vote against the death penalty would not comment , but howard say other juror tell he the three holdout refuse to deliberate .
he say he be tell that one be wear headphone during the closed-door discussion this week .
two juror who speak at howard 's news conference but decline to be identify say they work hard to try to reach a verdict .
'' i believe brian nichol do not win .
in he own word , he say it be not he dna to stay in jail , which be what he have to look forward to the rest of he life , '' say christina greenway , daughter of slay court reporter julie ann brandau .
'' i be not disappointed and i have no regret . '' .
nichol be be escort to he trial for rape when he overpower a deputy guard he and steal she gun .
he burst into the courtroom and shot and kill superior court judge rowland barne , brandau and sheriff 's deputy hoyt teasley .
he flee downtown atlanta and manage to evade hundred of police officer search for he overnight .
in atlanta 's posh buckhead neighborhood , he shoot and kill federal agent david wilhelm at a house the agent be renovate .
death penalty expert say the nichol verdict show there be no tell what will happen when a jury be ask to settle a capital case .
'' it be very hard for 12 people to sit down around the table to make a decision to put another human be to death , '' say stephen bright , a yale law school lecturer and a veteran capital defense attorney .
nichol , who argue he be insane when he carry out the killing , speak for the first time in court on saturday as relative of the victim ' family quietly weep .
'' i just want to say that i know that the thing i have do cause a lot of pain and i be sorry , '' he say .
'' and i just want to say that i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life .
that be it . '' .
the judge have advice for anyone who deal with nichol in the future .
'' do not trust mr. nichol ever again .
ever again .
because he can not be trust . '' .
arcade joseph comeaux jr , prison inmate , pull gun on and handcuffs guard , run away .
11 / 30 / 09 05 : 40 pm et .
a convict sex offender sentence to life in prison pull a gun on two guard during a prison transfer monday and hold they hostage temporarily before flee on foot in one of the guard uniform , authority say .
at the time of the escape , the inmate be in a wheelchair , which he claim he need to help move he around , official say .
comeaux , 49 , take the officer weapon and handcuff they together in the back of the vehicle before flee on foot at around 9 a . m . , lyon say .
he be serve a life sentence after be convict in june 1998 of aggravate sexual assault out of brazo county , located northwest of houston .
comeaux be give two extra life sentence after be convict for stab he wife and another person in 1999 while she visit he in prison .
she survive the attack .
comeaux also injure a man who be visit another inmate at the time and try to stop the attack .
the escape trigger a lockdown at lee college and three campus in the goose creek school district , in and around baytown .
now that fulton county courthouse killer brian nichol have be sentence to life without parole , one of the not yet answer question be where the 37-year-old will serve time .
superior court judge jame bodiford on saturday suggest that nichol should serve he time in the federal maximum security prison - know as supermax - in florence , colo. , which have the reputation as the nation 's toughest and most secure prison .
bodiford say he be surprise to learn during the trial that nichol , who be commit of state crime , could still serve he time in a federal prison .
'' i think maybe supermax might be a good place for mr. nichol for what it be worth , '' bodiford say .
'' i do not believe i can order it and i be not go to order it but that be my two cent worth . '' .
about the prison .
the supermax unit at the florence federal correctional complex at florence , colo. , primarily hold extremely dangerous or escape-risk federal inmate .
there also be a few state prisoner there who need more security than those prison can provide .
the remote prison , which open in 1994 , almost disappear into the same-color desert around it .
cell be 8-by-12 foot , with concrete wall , ceiling and furnishings , include the bed .
the toilet , sink and shower be stainless steel .
cell window be long and narrow , limit the view to only the sky .
some known inmate .
unabomber ted kaczynskus , shoe bomber richard reid , and sept. 11 , 2001 conspirator zacaria moussaouus .
jamil abdullah al-amin , the 1960 militant once name h. rap brown , convict in georgia of the state crime of murder a fulton county deputy .
convict of federal crime in georgia : eric robert rudolph , who plead guilty to the centennial olympic park bombing and other bombing in atlanta , and malachi z. york , the nuwaubian leader convict of child molestation , racketeering and federal financial reporting charge .
prison program .
a three-step program limit - or perhaps deprive - inmate of many thing that would stimulate the sens - smell , sight and touch .
olympic park bomber rudolph complain in letter to a colorado newspaper in 2006 that the prison 's design be drive he insane .
in the first stage of the program , inmate spend 23 of every 24 hour double-locked behind a steel door and a bar grate .
they be allow one 15-minute telephone call a month .
one hour each day be spend alone in a recreation area .
they behavior be review every 90 day before they can be move up to the next step .
at the second and third step , inmate be give progressively more freedom , more time for exercise , longer and more frequent telephone call and more social contact with other prisoner - as long as they be free of violation .
limited inmate privilege .
inmate get a radio and a black-and-white , 13-inch television make specially with clear back that reveal all internal component .
the tv be hook up to '' basic cable . '' .
inmate participate in religious service that be broadcast on they television .
guard pass inmate ' meal , law book and other item through a slot in the door .
there be limited direct human contact .
convict child molestor arcade joseph comeaux jr . on the lam in texa .
nov . 30 , 2009 .
a convict child molester who be supposedly confine to a wheelchair overpower two prison guard today , handcuff they , steal they weapon and walk off wear one of they uniform .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , be serve a life sentence for several charge -- include indecency with a child -- and be en route from the estelle unit in huntsville , texa , to the stile unit in beaumont , texa , when he escape just after 9 a . m .
lyon say that comeaux use a wheelchair in prison -- he claim it be necessary for he mobility -- and add , since he flee on foot , that obviously in question . '' .
describe as a 6 - foot tall and weigh approximately 200 pound , lyon warn that comeaux know the area where he escape well and could have family nearby .
he initially be imprison on february 1979 on three 10 - year sentence for rape of a child , aggravate rape of a child , and burglary of a building with the intent to commit theft .
he supervision be revoke and he return to prison in may 1984 with a new charge of indecency with a child , give a new 20 year sentence .
between 1991 and 1998 , comeaux be in and out of prison on parole violation until he finally return to prison in june 1999 to serve a life sentence for aggravate sexual assault .
in 1999 , comeaux stab he wife during a visit , use he wheelchair to pin she against a wall while he stab she .
he wife survive , but another inmate who try to break up the attack also suffer stab wound , and comeaux be convict of additional assault charge and receive two additional life sentence .
former kutztown university football player brian nichol have receive a sentence of life in prison without parole for a march 2005 shooting spree in a atlanta courthouse , accord to report .
accord to report in a atlanta newspaper .
nichol be sentence saturday morning to seven life sentence and four sentence of life without parole plus 485 year .
nichol be be try for rape in march 2005 when he overpower a female sheriff 's deputy , take she gun and shoot the judge in he rape trial and the court reporter .
outside the courtroom , nichol shoot and kill a sheriff 's deputy sergeant .
later that day , as he attempt to elude police , he shoot and kill a u.s. custom agent .
he later make it to gwinnett county where he kidnap a woman who say she talk nichol into surrender .
arcade joseph comeaux jr : texa child molester escape and arm .
november 30 , 2009 at 02 : 22 pm .
texa inmate arcade joseph comeaux jr . escape when he be be transport to a prison in beaumont from huntsville .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . be a convict sex offender serve a life sentence .
comeaux escape with a 12 - gauge shotgun and 2 semiautomatic pistol .
he initially be imprison on february 1979 on three 10 - year sentence for rape of a child , aggravate rape of a child , and burglary of a building with the intent to commit theft .
he supervision be revoke and he return to prison in may 1984 with a new charge of indecency with a child , give a new 20 year sentence .
between 1991 and 1998 , comeaux be in and out of prison on parole violation until he finally return to prison in june 1999 to serve a life sentence for aggravate sexual assault .
fulton courthouse killer brian nichol be sentence saturday morning to seven life sentence and four sentence of life without parole plus 485 year for the crime he commit on march 11 , 2005 , that stun metro atlanta and the nation .
brian nichol be save from a death sentence by three juror who be determine that he instead spend he life in prison , no matter how many people he kill .
fulton county district attorney paul howard suggest saturday that the possibility of a death penalty be doom - even before jury selection - by the three holdout .
'' i talk to two juror and they both say that some people show up for jury duty with they mind already make up and never enter into a meaningful discussion of a death sentence , '' howard say saturday after nichol be sentence .
'' that mean we do not get a fair trial . '' .
the two juror , who indicate they be among the nine voting to put nichol to death , report one of the holdout even work a crossword puzzle while the panel deliberate nichol ' fate for 40 hour over four day .
the frustrated prosecutor gamble on get a death penalty decision when he deny a nichol offer a year ago to plead guilty in exchange for a life prison sentence .
he say saturday that he would urge georgia lawmaker to amend the law - that now require a unanimous decision - to allow a 10-juror majority approve a death penalty .
'' we be not ask for favor - we be just ask for a level playing field , '' howard say .
'' people who will not deliberate should not be permit to continue to serve on jury . '' .
he be especially vex because the holdout be evidently not truthful when question by lawyer about whether they could impose the death penalty before they be choose for the jury .
he say all the juror swear under oath that they could consider death for nichol if they feel the crime deserve it .
inside the jury room , however , the three holdout tell the other nine juror that they would not impose death for any killing .
in fact , howard say , the nine pro-death juror ask the three holdout how many people would nichol have to kill before they would be willing to vote for execution .
'' they ask , how about if it have be 50 people ? ' '' howard say .
'' and the three people say it would not make any difference at all . '' .
the two female juror , one white and one black , speak publicly at a news conference saturday to express they exasperation .
'' i want the family to know we do everything we could do , '' say the white woman , who be identify as juror no. 12 .
family member of the four murder victim express outrage that nichol have escape the death penalty .
'' i feel in some way he be proud of what he do , '' say deborah teasley , widow of a sheriff 's deputy nichol murder .
'' he be constantly sit there at the defense table with a smirk on he face . '' .
the two juror , who do not give they name , say the closed-door jury deliberation never become hostile during the four day they try to decide a penalty .
'' everyone be respectful , '' say juror no. 8 , one of six african-american woman on the panel .
'' we be able to state we opinion .
but we would not back down . '' .
it be the pro-death majority , hope to sway the three holdout , who seek the replay of the bombshell jailhouse tape recording of nichol talk with he brother on a telephone call .
'' we be search , '' juror no. 12 say .
a angry nichol be record say he do not regret the four murder and would have take he rampage to the da 's office in the courthouse if give the chance again .
defense attorney vehemently object to the tape as '' highly prejudicial , '' though judge jame bodiford say juror could rehear just the portion play for they at trial .
in the end , the jury do not follow through with a formal write request for the tape .
the two juror keep they public comment limit at the news conference .
other juror contact by the atlanta journal-constitution , include the jury foreman , decline to talk or answer question leave for they at they residence .
the jury - six black woman , two white woman , two black man , one white man and one asian man - begin hear the case sept. 22 and convict nichol on nov. 7 after 12 hour of deliberation .
the trial then enter a four-week penalty phase , with prosecution witness testify that nichol be still a remorseless killer plot constantly to escape , and defense witness testify he have a troubled childhood and have show sign of remorse and redemption .
howard say the juror in the majority tell he after report they 9-3 deadlock to bodiford that they do not know they could have ask bodiford to replace with alternate the three who refuse to deliberate with they .
on friday morning , a day after the 9-3 deadlock be first report , prosecutor kellie hill ask bodiford to ask the jury if all of the juror be participate in good faith .
defense lawyer object , argue to bodiford that any such inquiry during the penalty phase would amount to coercion - which could result in a reversal on appeal .
josh moore , one of the defense lawyer , have remind the judge earlier that unanimity in the penalty phase be not require .
'' georgia law show no preference for a unanimous verdict in the sentencing phase of a death case , '' he say .
howard say state law be murky on whether a judge could inquire or replace juror during the penalty phase .
the law also permit each juror to follow he or she personal morality on determine whether to impose a death sentence , as long as the juror can honestly consider it .
howard say he hope the legislature also would change the law , which permit vague response during jury selection on whether potential juror would be willing to impose the death penalty .
victim ' relative say any nichol victory be hollow .
'' i do not think brian nichol win , '' say christina greenway , daughter of the court reporter nichol murder .
'' in he own word , it be not in he dna to stay in prison .
now he can look forward to a life in prison . '' .
nichol rise to infamy when he escape from custody at the fulton county courthouse during he rape trial on march 11 , 2005 , by overpower he guard , sheriff 's deputy cynthia hall , beat she so badly he leave she brain-damaged and blind in one eye .
nichol then take she gun and go to the chamber of superior court judge rowland barne , who be preside over he trial , and take the staff captive and seize the gun of another deputy .
minute later , he shoot barne in the back of the head while he be on the bench hear a civil matter .
four seconds later , he shoot the court reporter , julie ann brandau , in the head , kill she , also .
nichol then escape and shoot and kill deputy sgt. hoyt teasley , who have pursue he outside the courthouse .
nichol commit a series of carjacking before finally escape downtown atlanta by take marta to buckhead while police look for he .
in buckhead , while in search of a hiding place , he commit other assault before end up that night at the house that david wilhelm be build a few block from lenox mall .
he shoot wilhelm , a off-duty u.s. custom agent , empty he pocket of cash and take he cellphone as he lay paralyzed , die on the floor .
nichol steal wilhelm 's pickup truck , where he say he find wilhelm 's badge .
whether he know wilhelm be a federal agent before he kill he could make a difference on whether federal authority indict he and seek a death penalty in a federal court .
at trial , prosecutor contend nichol ambush wilhelm and that he do not have he gun draw during the confrontation as nichol claim .
defense lawyer contend that nichol commit the crime because he suffer from a delusion that make he believe he be lead a slave revolt against a unjust justice system .
nichol , 37 , be a $ 80,000-a-year computer system expert at up before he life spiral out of control after he girlfriend of seven year dump he for infidelity .
he take she captive and rape she in august 2004 - say he want to win she back - and be arrest and spend nine month in jail before the killing .
wilhelm 's widow , candee , take aim at nichol ' parent - who have win praise from the judge as solid citizen - when she address the public after the sentencing .
'' brian nichol ' parent raise a extremely evil person , '' say wilhelm , who be briefly detain during the trial for bring a pistol into the courthouse .
'' i be extremely disappointed that the defendant have be show the mercy that he do not show on march 11 , 2005 . '' .
lead prosecutor kellie hill remind the crowd that mercy do not equal injustice .
'' justice have be serve in this case - it absolutely have be , '' hill say .
'' sometimes we do not understand the outcome , but we all have to accept it . '' .
nichol ' mother , claritha , and father , gene , attend the trial most day for 12 week .
they become the focus of testimony about they son 's upbringing , and he mother testify about event lead up to he rape trial on the day he escape and go on he kill spree .
they sit through the sentencing saturday but leave the courthouse before reporter could interview they .
as she come into the courthouse before the sentencing , nichol ' mother express they sentiment .
'' we just want to fade into obscurity , '' she say .
texa prison escapee add to u . s . marshal '15 most want list .
the u . s . marshal have add to they '' 15 most want '' list of fugitive a man serve three life sentence who escape custody during he transport from huntsville , texa , to stile , texa .
during the escape , arcade joseph comeaux , jr . allegedly produce a weapon and fire upon two correctional officer , take they hostage and force they to drive to baytown , texa , where he restrain the officer in the back of the van , take they firearm and one of they uniform .
comeaux '' s escape be all the more surprising since authority have mistakenly believe he be paralyze follow a stroke , and be wheelchair bind .
comeaux flee on foot follow he escape .
comeaux be in prison after be convict of aggravate sexual assault of a child and aggravate assault with a deadly weapon .
accord to texa authority , the weapon conviction stem from a 1999 incident where he stab he wife 17 time while she be visit he in prison .
a judge in fulton county , ga . , sentence brian nichol saturday to multiple life prison sentence for he deadly 2005 rampage at fulton courthouse .
superior court judge jame bodiford sentence nichol to seven consecutive life sentence and four sentence of life without parole for the march 11 , 2005 , incident that leave four people dead , the atlanta journal-constitution report .
'' you will be please to know that i be not go to lecture too much this morning , '' bodiford say .
'' i be not go to express outrage and i be not go to express any feeling might have .
the jury have speak and i respect the jury .
i think the jury do everything it could to come up with a unanimous sentence . '' .
nichol be convict of overpower a sheriff 's deputy before kill superior court judge rowland barne , court reporter julie ann brandau , sheriff 's deputy sgt. hoyt teasley and u.s. custom agent david wilhelm .
the journal-constitution say nichol , who also receive a additional sentence of 485 year , offer a show of remorse before he sentence be announce saturday .
'' i be sorry .
i just want to say that i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life , '' the convict killer say .
texa convict arcade joseph comeaux jr . , ride in wheelchair , pull gun on guard , escape on foot .
thursday , december 3 , 2009 , 9 : 36 be .
reward total 30 , 000 be offer for information lead to texa prison escapee arcade joseph comeaux jr .
department of correction spokeswoman michelle lyon say thursday that the convict sex offender be still on the run .
comeaux be in a wheelchair monday when he pull a gun on two guard during a transfer from a unit in huntsville to one in beaumont .
both guard be release after be force to drive to the baytown area , where comeaux run way .
comeaux be serve life in prison for aggravate sexual assault out of brazo county .
a atlanta judge sentence brian nichol to life in prison saturday morning .
he be the former kutztown university football player who go on a shooting rampage at a atlanta courthouse in 2005 , kill four people .
the jury be unable to come to a decision after 30 hour of deliberation .
the judge , by law sentence nichol to consecutive maximum sentence on each of he charge .
while nichol do not recieve the death penalty , he will likely die in prison .
death sentence in georgia require a unanimous decision by a jury .
nichol face more than 50 charge in the case .
he be on trial for rape in 2005 in a atlanta courtroom when he grab a guard 's gun , fatally shoot a judge , court reporter , sherrif 's deputy and later , a federal agent .
armed and dangerous texas inmate on the loose .
publish november 30 , 2009 .
the texas department of criminal justice be search for a escape inmate who be consider armed and dangerous , myfoxhouston . com report .
official say arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , take two transport officer hostage on monday morning and then escape from the vehicle and take off on foot , myfoxhouston . com report .
comeaux , a 6 - foot , 200 - pound black male , be serve a life sentence for crime he commit in three texa county .
he be sentence to life in prison for indecency with a child , aggravate sexual assault and two count of aggravate assault with a deadly weapon , myfoxhouston . com report .
comeaux allegedly handcuff the officer together in the vehicle and then take off with they weapon , myfoxhouston . com report .
a judge on saturday sentence the man who kill four people during a brazen courthouse escape to multiple life sentence with no chance of parole , and to hundred more year on more than 50 charge .
the man , brian g. nichol , 37 , be find guilty last month of murder and dozen of other count in the march 2005 rampage that lead from a downtown courthouse to a atlanta neighborhood and which end with he capture the next day in a suburban county .
judge jame g. bodiford of superior court hand down the maximum sentence on each charge , to run consecutively .
'' if there be any more i could give you , i would , '' judge bodiford say .
mr. nichol be spare multiple death sentence when the jury fail to reach a unanimous decision , as require by georgia law , recommend that punishment .
the sentence end more than three year of effort to bring mr. nichol to justice since he arrest , frustrating victim ' relative and anger state legislator over the cost .
mr. nichol escape on march 11 , 2005 , as he be be escort to a trial for rape .
he beat a deputy guard he and steal she gun .
he burst into the courtroom and shot and kill judge rowland barne ; a court reporter , julie ann brandau ; and sgt. hoyt teasley , a fulton county sheriff 's deputy .
mr. nichol flee downtown atlanta and manage to evade hundred of police officer overnight .
in the buckhead neighborhood of atlanta , he shoot and kill a federal immigration and custom agent , david wilhelm , at a house the agent be renovate .
mr. nichol be capture the next day in suburban gwinnett county after a woman he take hostage , ashley smith robinson , alert the police .
ms. smith robinson be credit with bring a peaceful end to the rampage by appeal to mr. nichols 's religious belief and give he illegal drug .
mr. nichol , who be raise in baltimore , confess to the killing but say that he be legally insane and that he believe he be a slave rebel against he master .
prosecutor argue that he concoct the delusion to avoid the death penalty .
mr. nichols 's rampage lead lawyer and judge to question they safety , and official around the state re-examined courthouse security measure .
texa lifer escape prison van near houston .
a texas inmate escape from a prison van near houston after pull a gun on two guard who be transport he between prison , accord to a texas prison statement monday .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , run away on foot with the guard gun and wear one of they gray correctional officer uniform , the statement from the texas department of criminal justice say .
comeaux be serve a life sentence for indecency with a child , aggravate sexual assault and two count of aggravate assault with a deadly weapon , it say .
the escape happen near baytown , texa , about 25 mile east of houston , it say .
a georgia judge hand brian nichol today four consecutive life sentence without the possibility for parole sentence today .
he be convict of kill four people , include a judge in a court room shooting in 2005 .
a court officer be also kill outside the court and a off-duty officer the next day .
'' i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life , '' nichol , 37 , tell the court .
'' i be give you the maximum -- every day i could give you , '' superior court judge jame bodiford say , in the same court where the killing occur .
'' if i could give you more , i would . '' .
nichol be on trial for rape when on march 11 , 2005 he overpower a guard and seize she weapon , kill in the court room judge rowland barne and the court reporter julie ann brandau ; .
he also be convict on kill sgt. hoyt teasley outside the courthouse and kill the next day off-duty u.s. custom agent david wilhelm .
nichol say : '' i know that the thing that i have do cause a lot of pain , and i be sorry . '' .
juror deadlock with nine in favor and three against the death sentence .
ironically nichol have offer to plead guilty in return for life behind bar but prosecutor have refuse .
escape renew call for prison agency shake - up .
november 30 , 2009 .
after face serious question about how 900 prohibit cell phone be smuggle into texa prison this year , along with drug and weapon , the texa department of criminal justice find itself on the defensive again tuesday while try to find a inmate who escape despite be shackle to a wheelchair .
tdcj official could answer few question about how convict rapist arcade joseph comeaux jr . , 49 , escape monday from a prison van in baytown after pull a gun and handcuff two transport officer , steal they three gun and walk away .
he remain on the loose today .
comeaux escape monday morning as transport officer try to move he in a tdcj van from the estelle prison unit in huntsville to the stile unit in beaumont .
he put on one officer gray uniform and black boot , then steal a 12 - gauge shotgun and two semus - automatic pistol before flee on foot , leave he pistol behind .
a judge on saturday sentence the man who kill four people in a brazen courthouse escape to multiple life sentence with no chance of parole after a deadlock jury fail to return a death sentence .
brian nichol , 37 , be find guilty last month of murder and dozen of other count for the march 2005 rampage that start in a downtown courthouse , lead to a atlanta neighborhood and end with he capture the next day in a suburban county .
he will likely die in prison after superior court judge jame bodiford hand down the maximum sentence on each charge .
'' if there be any more i could give you , i would , '' the judge say .
nichol be spare capital punishment when the jury fail to reach a unanimous decision to condemn he to death row for the murder of a judge , a court reporter , a deputy and a federal agent .
after four day and more than 30 hour of deliberation , the jury be deadlock at 9-3 , with nine in favor of the death penalty and three vote for life without parole .
nichol , who argue he be mentally insane when he carry out the killing , speak for the first time in court on saturday .
'' i just want to say that i know that the thing i have do cause a lot of pain and i be sorry , '' he say .
'' and i just want to say that i will not bring dishonor to the decision to spare my life .
that be it . '' .
the sentence cap more than three year of effort to bring nichol to justice since he arrest that be repeatedly bog down by legal complication , frustrating victim ' relative and anger state legislator over the cost .
the rampage prompt attorney and judge to question they safety and law enforcement around the state to re-examine courthouse security measure .
the deadlock jury be a setback for prosecutor , who turn down a offer from nichol ' attorney to plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence .
but district attorney paul howard say he have speak with u.s. attorney about a possible death penalty trial against nichol in federal court for the killing of the off-duty federal agent .
howard also say georgia prosecutor need more leeway to strike juror who be reluctant to vote for the death penalty .
he say juror have tell he that the three holdout refuse to deliberate and one even wear headphone during the closed-door discussion this week .
'' the community have speak , '' he say .
'' even though we be puzzle and terribly disappoint by the decision , we must accept the conclusion provide by we community . '' .
in a tearful post-trial press conference , the family of the victim thank the prosecutor for go through with the trial , as painful as it be .
'' i believe brian nichol do not win .
in he own word , he say it be not he dna to stay in jail , '' say christina greenway , daughter of slay court reporter julie ann brandau .
'' which be what he have to look forward to the rest of he life i be not disappointed and i have no regret . '' .
nichol be be escort to he trial for rape when he beat a deputy guard he and steal she gun .
he burst into the courtroom and shot and kill superior court judge rowland barne , brandau and deputy hoyt teasley .
he flee downtown atlanta and manage to evade hundred of police officer search for he overnight .
in atlanta 's posh buckhead neighborhood , he shoot and kill federal agent david wilhelm at a house the agent be renovate .
the judge , after sentence nichol to the slew of charge , urge the victim ' of nichol ' crime to try they best to regroup .
'' we have learn a lot from this horrible tragedy , and as horrible as it be , we need to learn from this and make sure it never happen again , '' say bodiford .
the judge offer advice for the prison guard who will handle nichol .
'' do not trust mr. nichol ever again .
ever again .
because he can not be trust . '' .
update saturday , december 05 , 2009 8 : 28 pm .
texas escapee now on u . s . marshal most wanted list .
last week escapee from the texa prison system be still at large and be now on the u . s . marshal service most want list of fugitive .
arcade joseph comeaux jr . be serve three life sentence .
he escape last week while be transport from a prison in huntsville to one in beaumont , texa .
comeaux be accuse of use a gun which be smuggle in to he for the escape .
he be in prison after be convict of aggravate sexual assault of a child and aggravate assault with a deadly weapon .
accord to texa authority , the weapon conviction stem from a 1999 incident where he stab he wife 17 time while she be visit he in prison .
india suffer massive internet disruption after undersea cable break .
million of people across the middle east and asia have lose access to the internet after two undersea cable in the mediterranean suffer severe damage .
huge number in egypt and india be leave struggle to get online as a result of the outage , when the major internet pipeline between egypt and italy be cut .
internet service provider -lrb- isp -rrb- throughout the region , include those in unite arab emirate , kuwait and saudi arabia , also report problem .
international telephone call , which have also be affect , be be reroute to work around the problem .
industry expert tell the time that two sub-sea cable go down just off alexandra , cause the mass disruption .
'' it be incredibly rare to experience a dual-break where both cable be down simultaneously , '' say a spokesperson for interoute , the internet network company .
the egyptian ministry say it will take '' several day '' for cable to be repair and be try to reroute egypt 's internet connection .
indian isp say they problem be due to the cable damage off egypt .
speak to reporter , rajesh chharia , president of the internet service provider ' association of india , say : '' information technology company , software company and call centre that provide online service to the uk or the we east coast be the worst affect . '' .
rafaat hindy , from the egyptian ministry , say : '' despite this be a international cable affect many gulf and arab country , we be closest to it and so we have a lot of responsibility .
'' we be work as fast as we can . '' .
it be think that up to 70 per cent of web service in egypt , and 60 per cent in india , be disrupt yesterday .
there be report that phone and internet difficult have spread to yemen , sudan , bangladesh and sri lanka .
the shut down will take several day to fix , and could have a major impact on the region and across the world .
it be likely to hit business who will struggle to communicate in the affect countire .
call-centre who work for british company be likely to be offline or hard to contact in the coming day .
other warn that bank and stock market trading could be affect .
the digital blackout highlight the vulnerability of global communication .
hundred of million of people access the web , but the vast majority of international traffic run through a a small amount of cable submerge below the sea .
industry insider warn that a domino effect be occur today , cause the disruption to spread across the globe .
as company ' private internet service go down , worker be force to use the public internet and mobile phone to communicate .
this have result in a heavy strain on phone and internet network , mean call could go down and cause the internet to become slower or blackout completely .
seacom restore for commercial isp on alternate route .
seacom business customer , include commercial internet service provider , have have they service restore via alternative route , seacom announce today .
october 14 , 2011 .
subsea cable operator seacom announce on twitter today -lrb- 14 october 2011 -rrb- that they have restore all they business customer on alternate route follow a outage expect to extend into next week .
this include commercial internet service provider , accord to seacom tweet , which say that all such isp use seacom capacity be no longer affect by the outage .
seacom start to experience problem on saturday , 8 october 2011 , which it say be cause by a problem on a cable between abu talat in egypt and marseille in france .
in a official statement from seacom say that they initial estimate be that it would take 12 day to repair the cable , depend on weather condition .
mweb announce on 12 october 2011 that they service through seacom be run at full capacity again .
cybersmart post on its website that they seacom service be restore at 10 : 57 on 11 october 2011 .
openweb ceo keoma wright say that 99 of they supplier traffic have be restore .
we however be not severely affect due to the sat3 backup in place on all we offering , '' wright add .
at the time of write the website of axxess and afrihost still say that they be experience degraded adsl service .
neither isp provide feedback as to whether they seacom capacity have be restore .
damage undersea cable disrupt service .
part of asia , the middle east , and europe experience internet and telephone outage friday when three undersea cable between italy and egypt in the mediterranean sea be damage .
the affect cable system , which run from alexandria in northern egypt to sicily in southern italy , carry more than 75 percent of traffic between the middle east , europe , and the united state .
it be still unclear how the cable be damage or when they will be fix .
reliance globalcom , a communication provider in india , tell bloomberg news that there be no time frame for get the network fix .
france telecom say it plan to send a boat to fix the problem and should have service restore to normal by december 31 , accord to bloomberg .
the cable system that be cut be know as smw4 cable or south east asia middle east-western europe 4 .
it connect 12 country : pakistan , indonesia , singapore , malaysia , bangladesh , india , sri lanka , unite arab emirate , saudus arabia , egypt , italy and france .
vodafone 's cell phone service in egypt have be affect by the cable failure , accord to bloomberg .
mobile phone service between europe and asia on orange be also disrupt , the bloomberg article say .
orange official tell bloomberg that at one point as much as 55 percent of voice traffic in saudi arabia , 52 percent in egypt , and 82 percent in india be out of service .
telephone provider , such as portugal telecom and reliance , tell bloomberg that they have be reroute traffic to other part of they network to avoid issue .
but this reroute have cause network congestion , which mean slower internet connection and some drop phone call .
in january , undersea cable outside alexandria be also damage , disrupt about 70 percent of the communication network in india and the middle east .
seacom cable problem may only be resolve next week .
initial estimate indicate that the total seacom repair time will be around twelve day .
october 11 , 2011 .
as many sa gamer may have notice , seacom be experience downtime again .
the cable system go down on saturday 8 october 2011 , and initial feedback suggest that the downtime may last for a few day .
seacom say that they mediterranean backhaul service provider be experience a service affect outage between abu talat and marseille .
this be affect all seacom traffic to europe .
tenet cto andrew alston say that they have have confirmation that seacom be offline and be unlikely to come back online for a few day .
the seacom downtime seem to be relate to a failure on the telecom egypt north -lrb- te north -rrb- submarine telecommunications cable link france and egypt .
seacom have state that the total repair time of the current problem they experience will be around twelve day depend on weather condition .
initial estimate indicate that the total repair time will be around twelve day depend on weather condition .
this entail gain the necessary permit and the actual repair time .
a repair vessel have be notify of the call - out and mobilization will occur immediately once permit be receive , '' seacom say in a official statement .
the outage initially affect all seacom traffic to europe , however seacom be able to restore some service by saturday afternoon . '' .
further restoration have continue throughout the weekend in cooperation with customer and partner and seacom will continue to actively work on secure additional capacity for all necessary service over the next day or two . '' .
sever cable in mediterranean disrupt communication .
internet and telephone communication between the middle east and europe be disrupt after three submarine cable between italy and egypt in the mediterranean sea be damage .
the failure cut the flow of '' datum of various kind '' between europe and the middle east , and there be no timeframe for when communication will be restore , say sanjeev gaur , director of assurance at reliance globalcom ltd. in india .
france telecom sa , which plan to send a maintenance boat to fix the problem , say the situation should be back to normal by dec. 31 .
three cable system carry more than 75 percent of traffic between the middle east , europe and america have be damage , accord to the u.k. 's interoute plc , which operate a fiber optic datum network connect 92 city .
the cable run from alexandria in northern egypt to sicily in southern italy .
in january , a anchor sever the cable outside alexandria after bad weather condition force ship to moor off the coast .
'' the information we have be a bit sketchy , but chance be that it will have be a anchor again , '' jonathan wright , interoute 's director of wholesale product , say in a telephone interview .
'' close to 90 percent of all the datum traffic between europe and the middle east be carry on these three cable system . '' .
interoute say the january incident bring down 70 percent of the internet network in india and the middle east .
customer service and some mobile-phone customer at vodafone group plc 's egyptian unit be affect by the cable failure , say simon gordon , a spokesman for the u.k. company .
egypt be the only country where the company be aware of any problem link to the failure , he say .
most mobile-phone call be route through fixed-line cable at some point .
verizon communication inc. , the second-largest u.s. phone company , say it have reroute traffic for its verizon business customer make call to the middle east by siphon it to europe and the u.s. and then down through asia , spokeswoman linda laughlin say in a interview .
the reroute slow some traffic to about half its normal speed , laughlin say .
point-to-point customer still do not have connection , and verizon do not have information on how many subscriber be affect .
the company expect repair to be complete by early next week , she say .
portugal telecom sgp sa , portugal 's biggest phone company , have redirect traffic through other cable in the region and therefore the '' impact be very small , '' say a company official .
sonaecom sgp sa , portugal 's second-biggest fixed-line phone company , also say that it be divert traffic to other route .
france telecom 's orange mobile-phone unit say the cable failure '' greatly disturbed '' the traffic between europe and part of asia .
at one point as much as 55 percent of voice traffic in saudi arabia , 52 percent in egypt and 82 percent in india be out of service , accord to orange .
internet traffic '' from mumbaus to london have now be reroute via hong kong which may lead to congestion and increase latency on this route , '' .
reliance say in a e-mail '' traffic disruption update , '' add that it be work with the affect customer to restore all service .
the company say it will publish another update on its web site tomorrow .
'' you can reroute the datum through other cable , but that increase traffic and can potentially create bottleneck , '' interoute 's wright say .
'' so internet connection may slow down and some phone call could get disrupt . '' .
some of interoute 's client in the u.k. and southern france be probably affect by the failure , wright say .
'' it be difficult to forecast how long it will take to fix the problem as it depend on the weather and sea condition in the mediterranean , '' wright say .
a fault be affect the smw4 cable near the alexandria cable station , the flag fea cable be down and the smw3 cable system be also affect , accord to information receive from telstra .
flag telecom group ltd. , a reliance globalcom unit , operate flag fea and the other cable be own by group of phone company across the region .
reliance globalcom do not know exactly what happen and engineer be work on the problem , say anurag joshi , head of the company 's global network operation center .
the smw4 cable , also know as sea-me-we 4or south east asia-middle east-western europe 4 cable network , connect 12 country : pakistan , indonesia , singapore , malaysia , bangladesh , india , sri lanka , unite arab emirate , saudus arabia , egypt , italy and france .
france telecom say one of its maintenance boat in the mediterranean area be head to the region for a relief mission with 20 kilometer of spare cable on board .
priority will be to recover the sea-me-we 4 cable , then the sea-me-we 3 cable , france telecom say , add that sea I we4 could be operate by dec. 25 and the situation should be back to normal by dec. 31 .
tuesday , october 11 , 2011 .
south africa : p2p control help overcome undersea cable outage .
the seacom undersea cable , which provide a data link between south africa , europe and india , experience downtime beginning on saturday 8 october 2011 , cause by a problem on a cable between abu talat -lrb- egypt -rrb- and marseille -lrb- france -rrb- . .
meanwhile , local internet service provider -lrb- isp -rrb- who use bandwidth on the seacom cable have be scramble to implement contingency plan to keep they customer connect .
accord to a mweb update - some more bandwidth be bring online last night -lsb- 10 october 2011 -rsb- bring we up to 83 of we require capacity .
we allow p2p traffic to run from midnight to 7am , after which it have to give way for critical traffic again . '' .
as mweb also use peerapp caching solution , it may help serve some p2p traffic without access the undersea cable .
as if the middle east and south asia do not have enough problem with war , terrorism and poverty , now communication in many of the nation in those region have be disrupt .
the cause - three international underwater cable in the mediterranean sea that be damage friday .
million of people try to make phone call or log on to the internet will not be do so for a while .
a similar problem happen nearly a year ago , but this one have the potential to be worse .
the damage this time break all three of the cable connect europe with asia via the middle east .
many carrier in the middle east and south asia will have to route they european traffic around the globe , instead of via a more direct route .
no word yet on a official cause of the damage .
previous reason for cable break include oil drilling and wayward anchor .
seacom restore via alternative route .
seacom announce that it have fully restore all its customer on alternative route .
october 20 , 2011 .
subsea cable operator , seacom , announce on twitter today -lrb- 20 october 2011 -rrb- that they have restore service to all customer use alternate route , follow a outage that be initially expect to take 12 day to repair .
in a statement publish on its official website , seacom say that a repair vessel be now in transit .
the vessel have receive the master permit for this repair ; operational permit be be finalize and should be receive prior to arrival on the repair ground , '' seacom say .
the repair be now expect to be complete in late october , but seacom warn that the usual exogenous factor associate with sub - sea repair , include weather and current , may further impact the repair . '' .
seacom start to experience problem on saturday , 8 october 2011 , which it say be cause by a problem on a cable between abu talat in egypt and marseille in france .
last week friday -lrb- 14 october 2011 -rrb- , seacom announce that it have restore service to its business customer , which include internet service provider , via alternate route .
internet service in egypt , the uae , india and other county in the region be interrupted today when submarine cable in the mediterranean sea fail .
cause of the failure be not know at this time , say operator reliance globalcom .
a total of three cable link italy and egypt go down .
a ship have be send out to fix the problem .
currently , service be be reroute to backup cable and satellite .
as reroute measure fully kick in , service be expect to improve by early saturday morning .
this be not the first time that cable service to the region have fail .
earlier this year , five separate undersea cable be cut between late january and early february , interrupt service to a number of country .
there be likely to be some serious failure analysis involve if we see some more pipe go off-line in the next week .
sever cable bring down phone line link europe , asia , mideast .
internet and telephone communication between europe , the middle east and asia be severely disrupt friday after three undersea cable be damage in the mediterranean , france telecom say .
'' the cause of the cut , which be located in the mediterranean between sicily and tunisia , on section link sicily to egypt , remain unclear , '' a statement say , while a spokesman say it be unlikely to have be a attack .
the company say it be send a ship to fix the line but that it would not arrive until monday and that it could take until december 31 before normal service be restore .
most business-to-business traffic between europe and asia be be reroute through the united state , the firm say , but regular communication between europe and several asian country have be disrupt since early friday .
sixty-five per cent of traffic to india be down , while service to singapore , malaysia , saudi arabia , egypt , taiwan and pakistan be also severely affect , a spokesman say friday evening .
a afternoon toll release by france telecom say that 100 percent of traffic be lose in the maldive indian ocean island , with the gulf state of qatar and djibouti , on the gulf of aden , also lose over 70 percent of they traffic .
egypt 's state news agency mena report that the cut happen off the coast of sicily at 10:00 be -lrb- 0800 gmt -rrb- on friday , with indian-registered reliance globalcom direct a submarine cable repair company to head to the region to fix the cable .
the agency add that service be be reroute to backup cable and satellite to compensate for the failure .
the cable be jointly own by several dozen different country .
one of the cable be 40,000 kilometre -lrb- 25,000 mile -rrb- long and link 33 different country while a second be 20,000 kilometre long and serve 14 state .
'' if there be just one cable down we could have use the other two , '' say france telecom spokesman louis-michel aymard .
'' but all three be down so this put we in a very difficult situation .
'' this be a very rare situation , '' he say .
the cable might have get catch up in trawler ' net or there may have be a underwater landslide , say aymard .
one appear to be fully sever , while the other two seem to be only partially cut , he add .
each cable have a '' leader '' country , he say egypt be in charge of the main cable and in this capacity commission france telecom marine , a subsidiary of the communication giant , to handle the repair .
the boat , with 20 kilometre -lrb- 12.5 mile -rrb- of spare cable on board , will leave very early saturday and arrive monday .
in january , five cable in the middle east and europe be cut , cause internet failure in the region and damaging traffic through the region 's important call centre industry .
france telecom say it would publish update on its website on the latest traffic disruption .
traffic from europe to algeria and tunisia be not affect , it say .
seacom operation fully restore : 4 november 2011 .
the break in a undersea cable on that affect seacom have be repair .
november 4 , 2011 .
undersea cable operator seacom announce today -lrb- 4 november 2011 -rrb- that repair have be complete on a broken cable off the coast of egypt that cause a outage on its network .
seacom say that its cable network be successfully repair on 29 october 2011 and all circuit be restore to the core network as of 4 november 02 : 00 gmt .
all seacom traffic to europe be affect by the break which happen on 8 october 2011 on one of they mediterranean backhaul service provider cable between abu talat and marseille .
initial indication be that the break would take 12 day to fix .
the cable operator announce that it have restore service to its business customer via alternate route on 14 october 2011 .
this be follow by similar restoration to the rest of its client on 20 october 2011 .
we partner network have inform we that the assign cable ship work in optimal weather condition for the duration of they repair .
the cable be quickly lift , the new cable splice in , test and re - lay thanks to close coordination between the ship crew and on - shore support , '' seacom say in a announcement on they website .
internet and telephone traffic between europe and the middle east and asia be hamper friday after three major underwater datum line be cut , accord to france telecom .
the cut occur on line between 07:28 and 08:06 coordinate universal time -lrb- utc -rrb- on line in the mediterranean sea that connect sicily to tunisia and egypt , the telecommunications company say .
the cut be to the sea I we 4 and sea I we 3 line , which connect country between singapore and france as well as the flag cable route , which stretch from the u.k. to japan , a france telecom spokeswoman who ask not to be name say .
france telecom be not sure what cause the cut , she say .
france telecom be not sure what cause the cut , she say .
'' we have two assumption .
the first be that it could be a underwater earthquake , '' she say .
'' or it could be simply a ship in the area which have cut the cable . '' .
'' or it could be simply a ship in the area which have cut the cable . '' .
a maintenance boat be en route to the site of the cut , but it will not get there until monday , and it will take as many as two week for the situation to return to normal , she say .
many country be affect by the outage , include india , saudi arabia , egypt and malaysia , which all lose a significant percentage on they voice traffic to europe .
for example , 82 percent of india 's voice traffic capability to europe be out of service early friday , although that situation have now improve , the spokeswoman say .
internet traffic also have be hit by the incident , accord to danny mcpherson , chief security officer with arbor network .
he company 's sensor report that between 3,000 and 5,000 internet route in the region be off-line early friday morning .
these route be the internet 's equivalent of dial prefix , mean that computer that use they would be completely unreachable until service be restore .
'' it be significant that it be lose , '' he say .
'' for they it be in the middle of a business day on friday . '' .
a large number of these come back on-line around 17:00 utc , mcpherson say .
most likely this happen after isp -lrb- internet service provider -rrb- that have be knock off-line have find alternate route for they traffic .
it be hard to estimate how many internet user be affect by the cut , but the internet have a total of close to 300,000 such route , he say .
this be not the first time this year that these cable have be cut .
earlier this year both the sea I we 4 and flag cable be cut .
flag 's cable be reportedly cut by ship anchor off the coast of alexandria , egypt .
august 17 , 2011 .
undersea internet cable sever near egyptian coast line .
have you experience any internet connection or mobile phone problem yesterday ! ?
it seem that another incident of a undersea telecommunications cable be sever on tuesday have result in partially block internet and mobile service in alexandria and some other governorate .
in a statement to al - masry al - youm news paper , mahmoud al - goweiny , a member of the national telecommunications regulatory authority board of director say that the cable cut happen around the same time that a different cable , own by telecom egypt , be also cut , affect service in egypt .
he also iterate that this particular undersea cable have frequently malfunction since late 2007 .
this cable be most likely to be the sea - I - we 4 that pass through egypt come from europe and then reach asia .
despite the after effect of this cable cut seem to be limit , however these incident have be occur more than once in a relatively short period of time .
sever a main internet pipe - line could leave a country communication and economy cripple for at least 72 to 120 hour cause a lot of problem !
it should be time to be - think protect these valuable communication life line !
etisalat egypt and linkdotnet be one of egypt largest internet service provider , and among the most affect by the cable cut .
no further detail be report by authority about the effect of the cable cut .
damage cable cause internet outage for million .
up to 70 % of communication to the middle east have be disrupt after cable connect region to europe be damage .
million of web user across the middle east be struggle to get online after damage to undersea cable connect europe , africa and asia take down a major route for internet traffic .
as much as 70 % of internet traffic and telephone communication between the continent have be affect by the outage .
it be believe to have be cause by damage to a string of cable which run on the bed of the mediterranean sea between italy and egypt , connect europe with other part of the world .
the line , which run hit the egyptian coast at alexandria and go on to connect to asia , be responsible for carry vast amount of internet traffic and phone call between different part of the world .
it remain unclear what precisely what cause the damage , but the egyptian communication ministry say that ship have already be dispatch to look at the problem - although repair will take '' several day '' .
jonathan wright , a director at telecom company interoute , say that the outage could have a devastating affect on business and communication around the world .
'' the potential impact of a outage of this size can not be underestimate - it be like sever a major artery , '' he say .
'' global internet connectivity be reliant on sub-sea cable connect country . '' .
the incident come less than a year after a similar outage bring a halt to communication between europe , africa and asia .
those problem be believe to have be cause by ship ' anchor rip through another section of the same cable , but be exacerbate by simultaneous damage in line through the middle east .
as many as 75 million people be affect in country as far apart as india , egypt and dubai .
it be not yet clear whether today 's outage be the same order of magnitude .
despite the prevalence of wireless internet and satellite connection , global communication be still largely reliant on the vast web of fibre optic cable which cover the planet .
the line , which take year of plan to install , move traffic backwards and forwards across continent .
the cable hit by the latest incident be among the most vital information pipeline link europe to the rest of the world - and be responsible for the majority of all connectivity in the middle east and south asia .
accord to alan mauldin , research director of communication analysis company telegeography , the succession of problem in the region be only likely to be remedy by a series of new cable which be currently be plan .
'' many new cable system be slate to enter service between europe and egypt in the next few year , '' he say .
cable cut partially block internet , mobile service in some area .
on tue , 16 / 08 / 2011 - 13 : 42 .
a undersea telecommunications cable cut on tuesday partially block internet and mobile service in alexandria and some other governorate .
the cable cut happen around the same time that a different cable , own by telecom egypt , be cut that also affect service , egyptian authority say .
mahmoud al - goweiny , a member of the national telecommunications regulatory authority board of director , tell al - masry al - youm that this particular undersea cable have frequently malfunction since late 2007 .
ahm osama , deputy executive director of telecom egypt , say the cable pass through egypt from europe and reach asia .
osama say the cut effect in egypt be limit , and there have be clear report about a cause .
some internet user suffer problem with internet and mobile service , osama note .
osama attribute these problem to the telecom egypt cable cut , which affect etisalat egypt and linkdotnet , two of egypt largest internet service provider .
no further detail be report about the effect of the cut .
mass internet outage in egypt after cable cut .
egypt 's communication ministry say internet cable in the mediterranean sea have be cut , cause massive internet outage .
the ministry say three internet cable be cut off the coast of sicily on friday morning .
throughout egypt , the internet be almost completely down or work sporadically .
the ministry say it will take '' several day '' for cable to be repair and be try to switch egypt 's internet to a alternative route .
it be the second large-scale internet outage in egypt this year .
undersea cable be also damage in january , cause outage in the mideast and india .
yemen and sudan be also have phone and internet difficulty friday because of he cable cut .
fiber cable cut in egypt .
august 16 , 2011 .
report on tuesday morning indicate that a fiber optic cable in the northern part of egypt have be damage , result in the loss of all telecommunications in egypt second largest city of alexandria and part of the nile delta region .
itnewsafrica that a telecom egypt fiber line near alexandria have be damage result in loss of telecommunications for all three mobile operator . '' .
the official , however , do not give detail as to why the cable be damage and it remain unclear whether it be a attack or a miscue on the operator part .
telecom egypt , the country state - own fix line monopoly be responsible for all adsl internet connection and the three mobile operator in egypt they infrastructure for connectivity .
egypt be not unfamiliar to telecom cut .
in recent year , the country have lose internet service after mediterranean cable be cut , leave the country largely black out for day .
the official , who be not authorize to speak to the media , do say that they be attempt to rectify the problem as soon as we understand exactly what happen . '' .
user across the country report immediate drop in speed and connectivity .
at local cafe in cairo , user immediately see a difference in connection speed .
i hope they get this sort out quickly , because i have to upload thing daily and this cut be affect how i work , '' say a egyptian blogger and journalist , who add that the internet be my life .
if it go down , it really hurt my ability to work . '' .
internet , phone traffic badly disrupt .
internet and phone communication between europe , the middle east and asia be severely disrupt on friday after three undersea cable be damage in the mediterranean between sicily and north africa .
france telecom say the cause of the cut be still unclear , but it be unlikely to have be a attack .
there may have be a underwater landslip .
the company say most business traffic between europe and asia be be reroute through the united state , but 65 % of traffic to india be down , and service to singapore , malaysia , saudi arabia , egypt , taiwan and pakistan be severely affect .
a ship have be send to fix the cable but normal service may not be restore till 31 december .
submarine cable problem disrupt telecom service in alexandria .
thursday , aug 18 , 2011 .
service on egypt three telecom operator be disrupt in part of alexandria on tuesday afternoon , and some user in cairo experience slower internet connection due to downtime in a submarine cable .
vodafone egypt say some user be continue to face slight problem due to damage in telecom egypt cable which begin in central cairo .
vodafone , along with the country three telecom provider have be affect by a damage in one of telecom egypt fiber cable in a wire go from the ramsis communication center all the way to sadat city , '' say khale hegazy , vodafone external affair director .
this have affect and continue to affect communication especially in part of alexandria and suez governorate , '' he say .
we have not be tell when it will be fix yet , it be in the hand of telecom egypt .
right now it be still slightly affect some connection , '' he add .
on its twitter account , etisalat misr say , customer on all three egyptian mobile operator may currently face connection issue with voice , mobile internet , and / or blackberry service as a result of a damage fiber cable from te datum .
the issue be currently under investigation and service will be restore as soon as possible . '' .
accord to mybroadband , the largest it website in south africa , the problem be attribute to downtime experience by the pan - african ict enabler seacom .
the company which be a privately funded venture that own and operate a submarine fiber - optic cable connect communication carrier in south and east africa , affect mobinil , vodafone , and etisalat network across part of alexandria and suez .
we be see some problem in we telecom tower which be affect only certain part like abu qir district or maamoura , for example , '' a mobinil customer service representative tell daily news egypt .
other than that , we client have be call we as usual . '' .
a vodafone customer representative also confirm that some of they user be experience downtime in part of alexandria due to minor technical difficulty . '' .
accord to seacom , the problem begin at around 08 : 30 be on tuesday , and be resolve at approximately 09 : 40 .
seacom partner network experience a terrestrial fiber cut between alexandria and the suez this morning 16th august from 06 : 31gmt .
all link be back up as of 07 : 35gmt .
total downtime be 1hr 4 min , '' the company be quote as say in a official statement .
mideast internet service disrupt .
internet link between europe , the middle east and south asia have be disrupt after undersea cable fail in the mediterranean .
international telephone and internet service in egypt be down by 80 percent , in india by 65 percent .
the company manage the cable say a ship be under way to carry out repair .
france telecom expect communication will not be fully restore before 31 december .
seacom downtime explain .
seacom experience downtime this morning ; seacom explain that the downtime be most likely cause by a problem on sea - I - we 4 .
august 16 , 2011 .
numerous broadband user complain about international connectivity problem this morning , cause by problem on the seacom cable .
seacom confirm the problem on they twitter account .
we can confirm that seacom be currently experience problem on they network .
we will keep you update on progress , '' seacom tweet at 09 : 30 this morning -lrb- tuesday 16 august 2011 -rrb- .
accord to seacom suveer ramdhanus initial feedback point to a problem on the sea - I - we 4 which cause downtime of around a hour on tuesday .
the downtime start at around 08 : 30 on tuesday , and be resolve at approximately 09 : 40 .
seacom partner network experience a terrestrial fibre cut between alexandria and the suez this morning 16th august from 06 : 31gmt .
all link be back up as of 07 : 35gmt .
total downtime be 1hr 4 min , '' seacom say in a official statement .
mweb ceo rudi jansen say that they business client experience no service interruption because of the seacom downtime , and that they residential client may have experience some slow international connectivity .
mweb have automatic failover on sit - 3 in the event of seacom outage to minimize the impact on they subscriber .
sever cable disrupt net access .
internet and phone communication between europe , the middle east , and asia have be seriously disrupt after submarine cable be sever .
it be think the flag fea , smw4 , and smw3 line , near the alexandria cable station in egypt , have all be cut .
a fault be also report on the go submarine cable 130km off sicily .
expert warn that it may be day before the fault be fix and say the knock on effect could have serious repercussion on regional economy .
jonathan wright - director of wholesale product at interoute which manage part of the optical fibre network - tell the bbc that the effect of the break would be feel for many day .
'' this will grind economy to a halt for a short space of time , '' he say .
'' if you look at , say , local financial market who trade with european and we market , the speed at which they get live datum will be compromise . '' .
'' if you think how quickly trade can be place , if they be suffer from bad latency time , then by the time a trade be place , the market may well have move on . '' .
the cause of the break be as yet unknown , although some seismic activity be report near malta shortly before the cut be detect .
in a statement release in relation to one of the break , france telecom say : '' the cause of the cut , which be located in the mediterranean between sicily and tunisia , on section link sicily to egypt , remain unclear . '' .
the french firm say it be send a ship out to fix the line between italy and egypt , although it could take until 31 december to fully repair the line .
the main damage be to the four submarine cable run across the mediterranean and through the suez canal .
it be think that 65 % of traffic to india be down , while service to singapore , malaysia , saudi arabia , egypt , taiwan and pakistan have also be severely affect .
earlier this year , the same line be damage in the same area - off the egyptian coast - although only two line be snap then .
'' we have lose three out of four line .
if the fourth cable break , we be look at a total blackout in the middle east , '' say mr wright .
'' these three circuit account for 90 % of the traffic and we be go to see more international phone call drop and a huge degradation in the quality of local internet , '' he add .
'' normally you would expect to see one major break per cable per year .
with four you should have a insurance policy .
for this to happen twice in one year , on the same cable , be a serious cause for concern . '' .
brief unplanned seacom cable internet outage .
16 august 2011 .
-lrb- tue , 16 aug 2011 -rrb- this morning one of the wit internet service provider , seacom , experience a outage affect international internet browsing .
the service be now back online .
tenet will continue to monitor and ensure that it be stable however , but from the look of thing traffic should now be flow normally again .
accord to information from seacom the outage be cause by a terrestrial break in the fibre in egypt on the smw4 cable system .
once we have official confirmation / a incident report we will send more information .
always at you service .
more telecoms disruption between europe and asia follow another brak in underwater telephone line .
10 month after the last event which block line between the two continent , 3 underwater cable be sever on the bottom of the sea '' for unknown reason '' between sicily and tunisia .
france telecom report that '' a attack be unlikely '' .
the company be send a repair ship to the location but predict that there will be problem during christmas which may last up to the new year .
business volume between europe and asia have be redirect on trans-oceanic line to the usa .
at present 65 % of traffic with india be offline .
the same go for 59 % of communication with singapore , 44 % with malaysia , 55 % with saudi arabia , 52 % with egypt , 39 % with taiwan and 51 % with pakistan .
seacom problem only resolve next week .
initial estimate indicate that the total seacom repair time will be around twelve day .
october 10 , 2011 .
seacom say today -lrb- 10 october 2011 -rrb- that the total repair time of the current problem they experience will be around twelve day depend on weather condition .
seacom start to experience problem on saturday 8 october 2011 , cause by a problem on a cable between abu talat -lrb- egypt -rrb- and marseille -lrb- france -rrb- .
initial estimate indicate that the total repair time will be around twelve day depend on weather condition .
this entail gain the necessary permit and the actual repair time .
a repair vessel have be notify of the call - out and mobilization will occur immediately once permit be receive , '' seacom say in a official statement .
the outage initially affect all seacom traffic to europe , however seacom be able to restore some service by saturday afternoon . '' .
further restoration have continue throughout the weekend in cooperation with customer and partner and seacom will continue to actively work on secure additional capacity for all necessary service over the next day or two . '' .
undersea cable damage disrupt internet service in egypt .
internet service in egypt have be disrupt due to damage of undersea cable in the mediterranean sea , the egyptian national telecommunication regulatory authority say friday .
up to 80 percent of internet service and call center in egypt have be cut after the submarine cable be damage south of italy on friday for unknown reason , say the egyptian mena news agency .
the egyptian side have contact the international company run the cable to give a repair report , mena quote a official source as say , add internet service in egypt be expect to improve in 12 hour .
earlier in the day , egyptian minister of communication and information technology tareq kamel order to set up a operation room to follow up the repair work , which be carry out by a international marine cable repair company .
egypt be also try to switch its internet service to a backup route via southeast asia and satellite .
egypt be construct another undersea cable , namely te-north , to connect the northern egyptian port city of alexandria and the southeastern french city of marseille , say mena .
it be the second time in 2008 that egypt witness a large scale internet service cut due to submarine cable damage .
in january , internet service and international call be also partly cut in egypt , along with a number of country in the middle east and south asia .
mweb update customer on seacom downtime .
seacom downtime have local isp scramble to keep customer online ; mweb issue a update .
october 11 , 2011 .
summary : mweb have manage to restore 83 of the require capacity on seacom .
p2p protocol will remain shaped to prioritise critical traffic .
the seacom undersea cable , which provide a data link between south africa , europe and india , experience downtime beginning on saturday 8 october 2011 , cause by a problem on a cable between abu talat -lrb- egypt -rrb- and marseille -lrb- france -rrb- .
this outage will likely only be fully resolve sometime during the week begin 17 october 2011 .
meanwhile , local internet service provider -lrb- isp -rrb- who use bandwidth on the seacom cable have be scramble to implement contingency plan to keep they customer connect .
mweb operation have issue a update regard the seacom downtime to its customer .
some more bandwidth be bring online last night -lsb- 10 october 2011 -rsb- bring we up to 83 of we require capacity .
we allow p2p traffic to run from midnight to 7am , after which it have to give way for critical traffic again . '' .
we be work on have the remain capacity restore during the course of the day , after which all traffic priority will return to normal , '' say mweb operation .
seacom have previously issue a statement on the current problem with the cable .
initial estimate indicate that the total repair time will be around twelve day depend on weather condition .
this entail gain the necessary permit and the actual repair time .
a repair vessel have be notify of the call - out and mobilization will occur immediately once permit be receive , '' seacom say in a official statement .
the outage initially affect all seacom traffic to europe , however seacom be able to restore some service by saturday afternoon -lsb- 8 october 2011 -rsb- . '' .
further restoration have continue throughout the weekend in cooperation with customer and partner and seacom will continue to actively work on secure additional capacity for all necessary service over the next day or two . '' .
hansbrough set carolina 's career score record .
reign national player of the year tyler hansbrough have break the career score record at north carolina .
the 6-foot-9 senior need nine point in the top-ranked tar heel ' game against evansville on thursday night to pass phil ford for the record .
he tie ford on a jumper from the left wing with 14:05 leave , then set the mark by banking in a turnaround shoot with 7:41 leave in the first half .
after the record-setting point , official briefly stop the game to allow ford , coach roy william and athletics director dick baddour to present hansbrough with the game ball .
ford finish he career in 1978 with 2,290 point .
mcdermott fuel bluejay in valley tournament win .
doug mcdermott get a score record friday , will artino get a chance to showcase he skill on the big stage and gregory echenique get mad .
the first two factored heavily into creighton '' s 65 - 53 victory against drake in the quarterfinal of the missouri valley conference tournament , but the last one might have be the decide factor in move the bluejay along to saturday '' be semifinal .
echenique score all 11 point of he point in the second half , grab 11 rebound and block six shot .
six of he point , five of he rebound and five of the block come after echenique get rough up -- tackle , he say -- while cut toward the basket midway through the second half .
no foul be call , but drake might have wish one have be .
after the no - call , the 6 - foot - 9 , 260 - pound echenique turn up the intensity to fuel a 15 - 2 run that turn a 47 - 44 creighton lead into a 16 - point cushion .
'' it make I kind of mad when that happen , '' echenique say .
'' it change my attitude a little , and give I a little more of a edge .
i have to find a way to get that anger out , and i couldn '' t say anything to the ref and risk get a technical or something .
'' i think i do the right thing , and it kind of capped my focus .
it make I play harder . '' .
with echenique lead the late charge , creighton finally subdue a stubborn bulldog team that be play to extend its season in a atmosphere that resemble a bluejay home game .
creighton fan fill almost two - third of the 9 , 000 seat in the lower bowl of the scottrade center , and experience some anxious moment before they team finally take command .
mcdermott , artino and echenique figure heavily into the outcome that improve the bluejay to 25 - 7 and advance they to a 1 : 35 p . m . semifinal meeting against indiana state , which defeat evansville 51 - 50 in friday '' be second quarterfinal .
'' will be great the first half and make some great play in the second half , '' creighton coach greg mcdermott say .
'' doug be consistent offensively throughout , and i think gregory really change the game defensively in the second half .
'' there be nothing that happen in the paint because of he energy and he ability to block some shot and change shot .
and he go and get the basketball off the board . '' .
doug mcdermott finish with 23 point , set the school score record when he get he 11th point on a free throw with 4 : 43 leave in the first half .
he make 8 of 14 shot from the field , include 3 of 4 3 - pointer , and grab seven rebound .
artino , whose role have grow as he productivity have increase during the second half of the season , have a career - high 14 point and six rebound .
five of he point come in a 7 - 0 run in the first half that turn a 12 - 12 tie into a lead creighton never relinquish .
still , thing be get tight when drake , which have defeat bradley in thursday '' s play - in round , close to 47 - 44 on seth vandeest '' s basket with 10 : 03 to play .
on they next possession , the 15 - 17 bulldog miss a open 3 - pointer that would have tie the game .
in between , echenique find himself sprawl on the court after get bumped hard as he move toward the basket on a pick - and - roll play .
he stay down for several seconds , then glare at a referee as he get to he foot .
echenique turn into a aggressive force in the final 10 minute .
'' we be a totally different team , '' greg mcdermott say when ask what a fire - up echenique mean to he club .
'' we don '' t resemble the team that we be when he isn '' t playing like that .
he be so active .
he make multiple play on several possession .
'' i '' m really proud of he , because sometimes it '' be hard to get the switch flip .
when it get flip , he '' be hard to deal with . '' .
echenique '' s dunk and free throw after be foul start creighton '' s decisive run , put the bluejay ahead 50 - 44 .
a vandeest layup would cut the bulldog '' deficit to four , but they wouldn '' t score again for almost eight minute while creighton stretch its lead to 62 - 46 .
'' you have to know how to use it when you get mad , '' echenique say .
'' i think i use it the right way out there today . '' .
he teammate know the bluejay be a different team when echenique be engage , one reason doug mcdermott pull he aside at halftime .
echenique have miss both of he shot in the first 20 minute and , mcdermott say , appear to be down on himself .
'' i just tell he , ` greg , you have to be the man here , '' '' '' doug say .
'' i tell he he be go to be we guy and we be go to feed he the ball .
he take that to heart and play with a command .
'' i '' m proud of he , and hopefully he can continue to bring that night after night . '' .
echenique score five of creighton '' s first eight point in the second half .
artino then have four in row as creighton open its first 10 - point lead of the game before drake counter with a 9 - 2 spurt that get the bulldog back with three point .
echenique '' be definitely a big factor , '' say vandeest , who have 13 point .
'' he have a huge body and use he body around the basket .
he really step up in the second half . '' .
drake coach mark phelp agree .
'' look at he number , '' phelp say .
'' he have 11 and 11 , and have six block .
he be really good tonight . '' .
artino be never better .
he 14 point better he career high of 13 .
he be two rebound off he personal best , and he play , especially in the first half , give creighton a huge boost .
'' will be tremendous , '' doug mcdermott say .
'' he '' be so easy to play with because he can see over the defense , he '' s good at the high - low pass and he crash the board every time .
it '' be great to have a guy like will on the team . '' .
it go without say that it '' be pretty valuable to have mcdermott around , too .
he come in need 11 point to break rodney buford '' s score record of 2 , 106 .
mcdermott have 10 point in the first 1/2 minute , then break the record when he make the first of two free throw with 4 : 43 leave in the half .
mcdermott now have 2 , 029 point in 106 game as a bluejay , but who '' be counting ?
'' it '' be a special feeling that i can '' t explain to pass guy like kyle korver , guy i look up to in my childhood , '' he say .
'' and to do it in front of a big crowd here in st . loui be cool .
'' but i don '' t even think about that stuff .
you guy be go to make the most of it , but i '' m just out there try to win and play hard every night . '' .
tyler hansbrough break phil ford 's 30-year hold on the all-time north carolina score record last night with a otherwise routine turnaround shot that never look pretty with 7:41 leave in the 1st half .
hansbrough 's 20 point and the heel put away evansville 91-73 be afterthought , the entire night be dedicate to the historic event inside the dean smith center .
the game be stop follow the basket to recognize the achievement , and the celebration continue after the game when hansbrough address the crowd .
unc official bottle he tear so that scientist can study they possible healing ability .
creighton defeat drake 65 - 53 in mvc tournament .
march 8 , 2013 5 : 47 pm .
doug mcdermott score 23 point to become creighton all - time score leader and the top - seed bluejay defeat drake 65 - 53 on friday in the quarterfinal of the missouri valley conference tournament .
in saturday semifinal , creighton -lrb- 25 - 7 -rrb- will play no . 5 seed indiana state , which defeat evansville 51 - 50 on friday .
will artino score 14 point off the bench and gregory echenique have 11 point , 11 rebound and six block shot for creighton , which enjoy a 44 - 26 rebound edge .
grant gibb have eight of the bluejay 11 assist .
mcdermott , a junior , now have 2 , 129 point - 13 more than rodney buford , who play for the bluejay from 1995 - 99 .
richard carter score 14 point and seth vandeest score 13 for the ninth - seed bulldog -lrb- 15 - 17 -rrb- .
jordan clarke have 10 rebound for drake , which reach the quarterfinal by beat bradley on thursday night .
hansbrough break unc score record .
the tar heel and the purple ace play a game , but the attention be on record-setting unc senior tyler hansbrough .
since the day he step foot on north carolina 's campus , forward tyler hansbrough have be work to diversify he offensive resume by try to extend he shooting range .
but it seem appropriate that when it come time to break unc 's three-decades-old career score record during the top-ranked tar heel ' 91-73 basketball victory over evansville on thursday night , the senior go back to a old staple : a workmanlike power move .
with 7:42 leave in the first half at the smith center , hansbrough muscle around purple ace forwards jame haarsma and pieter van tongeren to bank in a shoot off the glass and score he 10th point of the game and 2,292 point of he career .
that basket break the mark of 2,290 that point guard phil ford set from 1974 to 1978 .
hansbrough finish with 20 point and now have 2,302 for he career .
'' it be very fitting -- three guy on he , he be move to the basket , kind of off-balance , he bank it in with he soft hand , '' say gene hansbrough , who surprise he son by attend the game .
'' it be a perfect shot for tyler to break the record on . '' .
point guard ty lawson also chip in 16 point for the tar heel -lrb- 10-0 -rrb- , though coach roy william look frustrated at time by he team 's performance , particularly after evansville 's shy ely end the first half with a dunk .
that lead the coach to stomp off the court despite the fact that he team lead by 18 point .
the night , however , belong to hansbrough , who accept the game ball and a embrace from ford , now a assistant coach for the nba 's charlotte bobcat , immediately after set the record .
after the game , ford press he hand together and bow to the big man at mid-court , congratulating he as fan in the sellout crowd -- some of whom hold sign read '' phil ford 2,290 '' on one side and '' tyler 2,291 + '' on the other -- be on they foot for a rousing ovation .
'' it be a honor to be compare in the same breath at tyler , '' ford say later .
'' when i see how hard he play , and how he listen to coach william -- as a player , that be why i try to do . '' .
then hansbrough -- who follow he record-breaking bucket with a miss dunk attempt that probably will make the team blooper reel -- choke up as he watch a montage of current and former player congratulate he on the accomplishment .
'' i get a little emotional , because you may not know all those guy -lsb- in the video -rsb- , but you have get a connection , because you play here and you be part of something that i consider a family , '' he say .
hansbrough , who also grab nine rebound , have already secure he place in tar heel history -- and in the retire jersey portion of the smith center rafter , near ford -- by earn consensus national player-of-the-year honor last season .
break such a long-standing record add to he still-blooming legend .
ford pass the likes of lennie rosenbluth , charle scott and larry miller because they could play varsity basketball for only three year .
antawn jamison , michael jordan and rashad mccant fail to pass ford because they stay just three season .
then come hansbrough , the sometimes awkward-looking big man from poplar bluff , mo. , who opt to forgo go to the nba after he freshman , sophomore and junior season in order to try to win a ncaa title .
although he say he be a little nervous stray from the lane he rookie season , he actually score he first tar heel bucket on nov. 19 , 2005 , when he lead a three-on-two fast break against gardner-webb that finish with he jump shot in the lane .
and he have barely slow since , top unc 's chart for all-time free-throw attempt -- he pass the 1,000 mark thursday night -- en route to he latest record .
'' i want it on a 3 , '' hansbrough say of the record-setting bucket , '' but in a game , i realize you have to do what you have to do . '' .
which in he case , mean play with power and hone he improve finesse .
if he remain healthy , the combination probably will help he become the acc 's all-time lead scorer , as well .
former duke star j.j. redick hold that mark with 2,769 point .
'' i do not put anything past tyler .
if somebody tell I he be go to break the nba score record -- boy , that be go to be hard -- but you never say never when it come to tyler , '' gene hansbrough say .
'' he be get a strong will . '' .
danny green -lrb- 14 point -rrb- become the 61st player in unc history to score 1,000 point when he bury a 3-pointer in the second half .
the historical record will show that with 7:42 remain in the first half against evansville 's purple ace , tyler hansbrough become unc 's all-time lead scorer , slip a screen , fight through a double-team , and banking in a two-pointer for he tenth point of the game and the 2,292 point of he career .
the record will show this in no small part because at least 20 sportswriter be diligently typing behind the home basket , write version of the same word at the very same moment .
if there be go to be any mistake , it be quickly correct by carolina 's sport information army , abuzz all evening to ensure the moment be preserve perfectly .
then there be the photographer , on hand to document each move , each point , each congratulatory handshake .
beyond they , more than 20,000 witness run they own internal documentary system , surely think about how they will tell future generation of tar heel fan that they be present .
some might remember the moment come at 7:41 , a tick of a second later than the actual basket , when the game clock be stop for a tastefully brief ceremony and the obligatory photo op .
let the record show they memory be wrong , but it will not diminish the tell and retell until history become legend , as it usually do .
often history happen in quieter place , witness by fewer people , not fully appreciate or understand until much later .
but this episode be not leave for chance .
it have be anticipate for month , ever since carolina 's lunch-bucket all-american decide to return for he senior season -- not because he care a lick about break phil ford 's almost 30-year-old record , but because he love student life on campus , love basketball , and want to keep do both at the same time as long as possible .
the only hitch in the script be a sore shin and a twisted ankle that defer the night for a few week , into late december , a early christmas gift to the faithful who fill -lrb- well , almost fill -rrb- the smith center on a misty night .
everything else follow the script nicely .
espn dutifully ensure a national audience would share the moment on television .
then hansbrough 's father , gene , make he surprise arrival at a game he be not expect to attend .
but how could he miss it , really ?
have nurture he son 's talent and he competitive drive and he character and everything else along the way , history demand he be in he seat , ready to stand and salute he son as he swallow down the lump in he throat and express he love and thanks .
evansville prove the story 's perfect villain , keep it close through the early stage , and give a already charged-up crowd opportunity to boo lustily as the purple ace ' physical big man knock hansbrough to the ground on several occasion .
do not they know that be how hansbrough would have want it -- physically challenge , and therefore determine to crush they into submission ?
ford , meanwhile , make a gentlemanly entrance , gracefully shake hand with fan of all age , pose for picture , and wait in the wing for history to arrive .
after it do , he be pure class , thank roy william , hansbrough , and the university for ask he to be a part of the night .
'' it be a dream come true for I , '' he say , sound genuinely honor to be pass the torch to a player who , like he , give he best for the program and properly understand that team success , not individual record , be the real measure of success .
even with the game underway and subject to unpredictable bounce , a official 's phantom call , or some other twist of fate , the script hold .
the first point come from the foul line , swish through the basket without a doubt , as they have more often than for any other carolina player before he .
one reminder of greatness in the book .
the next point rapidly follow on a series of jumper , well beyond the range of anything doubter expect the brawling forward to hit on a regular basis when he be a freshman .
'' i will prove you wrong , '' you could almost hear he think as he hit each one , showcase the senior 's evolution into a complete player .
another reminder : player like this come along only once in a generation .
then there be the struggle , as teammate work to get he the ball in score position .
have tell everyone he want to break the record on a three , he camp out on the wing for one possession but fail to get a touch .
on another , he post hard inside as danny green take and miss a open three ; .
as the heel run to the other end , william appear to holler at green for fail to look inside first .
on this night , with history loom , even good quality shot need to wait for the moment .
but the struggle be need , too .
have not that be the essence of carolina 's working-class hero : the battler , scrap for everything , find success as much through passion as through athletic ability or skill ?
it take will -- and a brief stint on the bench -- before the moment come .
then , sure as sure , it do .
because it do , a number of thing will be quickly forget .
though tywon lawson have another dominant performance and danny green -lrb- who break a milestone of he own with he 1,000 career point -rrb- showcase the increasingly confident game that make he summer draft experiment seem less surprising , the tar heel grind they way through a game with 16 turnover -- two more than evansville -- and only 17 assist .
deon thompson never establish a rhythm , take out of he finesse game by the purple ace ' physical style .
early in the second half , william yank out all five starter and replace they with a blue team , unhappy with the focus and effort .
and wayne ellington 's shooting slump continue , he normally perfect stroke disconcertingly slow to return from the final break .
it be another double-digit win , and against a quality mid-major opponent , but a work of art it be not .
hansbrough , who look as though he be press all night despite finish with another 20-point , 9-rebound performance , admit to the nerve .
they be particularly evident on he next touch after the record-breaking point , when hansbrough steal a inbound pass , only to brick a dunk attempt off the back of the rim -- another moment that will probably be erase as history give way to legend .
'' i feel like there be a lot of pressure , '' he say .
'' i do not want to strictly focus on the score record .
we have a game and i be try to do whatever i could to help the team .
now i be glad it be over , and i be ready to move on . '' .
william agree .
'' i say , '' i be glad we get that behind we , now let 's focus on play better , and let 's focus on guard somebody . '' .
i do not look up at the scoreboard , but it be the first time that i can ever remember count point in my head .
so when -lsb- the shot -rsb- go in , it be immediately a feeling of elation , and -lsb- then -rsb- a feeling of relief that we get that out of the way . '' .
danny green acknowledge the team be ready to move on as well .
'' yeah , definitely , '' he say .
'' the one record we want to break be the win record , go undefeated for a entire season and hopefully get a national championship .
that be the record i want to achieve . '' .
history will remember this night , the emotion of the tribute video that follow the game , and the warmth of the celebratory laughter in the media room .
but in the locker room , business remain .
and in a brief quote that will probably be lose to memory , phil ford tell the real story of the night in word that will echo until winter turn to spring .
'' when i be coach here , if we do not make the final four , it be a bad season , '' he say .
'' and now , this guy , '' he continue , look to hansbrough , '' if he do not win a national title , he have a bad season . '' .
hansbrough do not flinch , but the eye flash with recognition .
the record be set , but history be still wait .
hansbrough break ford 's all-time score record at north carolina during the game .
a captive audience that include a emotional tyler hansbrough watch intently as the smith center video board mix in congratulatory remark with the collection of memorable play .
the accompany music : o.a.r. hit '' shatter . '' .
hansbrough , north carolina 's new career score leader , approach midcourt when the song end unc legend phil ford bow before he .
hansbrough pass ford for the top spot in school history while post 20 point in the top-ranked tar heel ' 91-73 victory against evansville on thursday night .
hansbrough enter the game with 2,282 point , eight fewer than ford 's total from 1974-78 .
he break the record when he post up on the right block , spin toward the middle of the lane and bank in a off-balanced shot over jame haarsma with 7:42 remain in the first half .
hansbrough miss a dunk 23 seconds later with unc lead 24-20 , and the tar heel -lrb- 10-0 -rrb- take control with a 19-4 run .
'' i be usually not nervous before game , and i be a little nervous before tonight just because i feel like there be a lot of pressure , '' hansbrough say .
'' one thing for I , i do not want to strictly focus on try to break a score record .
we have a game , and i be try to do whatever i could to help the team .
'' whenever it do happen , i be thrill and excite it be over .
also , i feel very honor . '' .
official stop the game when hansbrough , who now have 2,302 point , make the record-setting basket ford , a assistant coach with the charlotte bobcat , be pose for a courtside picture with two unc student when the ball go through the net .
ford , coach roy william and director of athletics dick baddour present hansbrough with the gameball during the brief stoppage in play .
'' it be a honor to be compare in the same breath with tyler , '' ford say .
'' when i look at how hard he play and how he listen to coach william , as a player , that be what i try to do .
as a player i would not outrun a lot of people or outjump a lot of people - i be extremely quick , i will say that .
'' the only thing i have go for I be i play for a great coach who bring out the best ability in the thing i could do .
i think that be what tyler do . '' .
the postgame ceremony feature comment from william , strength and conditioning coach jona sahratian , brendan haywood , marvin william , raymond felton , antawn jamison , marcus ginyard and bobby frasor .
it also include clip of hansbrough 's dunk over 7-foot-7 kenny george , he buzzer-beating shot against virginia tech in the 2008 acc tournament and he game-clinching 3-pointer at duke as a freshman .
ford make a favorable impression early in he unc career at a unlikely sight : the fetzer field track .
roy william recall the effort ford put forth to complete the team 's mile run in a predetermined amount of time .
'' the coach be count out the time as phil ford come in there , and he dive across the line at fetzer on the asphalt track , '' william say .
'' tyler hansbrough would have do that .
'' that , to I , be one of the most special thing .
phil ford be one of the greatest competitor i have ever see , and tyler hansbrough be also .
there be not a lot of people in that classroom . '' .
hansbrough , like ford , decline a opportunity to leave school for the nba follow he junior season .
the fun of college be one reason hansbrough , who be on pace to take over the acc career score mark currently hold by duke alum j.j. redick , return to unc .
the tar heel be favor to win the national championship , but the pursuit of a title be not always serious business even if hansbrough 's interaction with teammate such as larry draw suggest otherwise .
'' there be a lot of hype around this game , but before the game the whole team be around play xbox and mortal kombat , ' '' frasor say .
'' he be get into it , call larry a cheater .
stuff like that you would not get at a professional level . '' .
in front of he home fan and a national television audience , tyler hansbrough become the all-time lead scorer for north carolina basketball on thursday in he team 's win over evansville .
hansbrough need just nine point in the game to eclipse phil ford for the top spot .
he wind up with 20 after surpass ford 's mark in the first half .
hansbrough now have 2,301 career point as a tar heel .
hansbrough epitomize all that be right with college basketball .
he give he best every night , play the game right , and have stay in school for all four year of eligibility .
amid much speculation about how he will fare in the nba , hansbrough have remain focus on the present and be one of the biggest part of the top team in the country , on what many believe be the best team in recent memory .
unc be now 10-0 , with they closest margin of victory be by 15 point .
join event such as the big ten/acc challenge and the big 12/pac 10 hard-court series , the sec and big east showcase four cross-conference game for the second straight season .
while the sec steal the show on tuesday with victory from vanderbilt and tennessee , the big east respond on thursday with win from cincinnatus and louisville .
cincinnati jump out to a big 18-point halftime lead over mississippi state , and fend off a comeback to win 75-63 .
the other game be very similar , as louisville jump out to a big lead on mississippus .
mississippi come all the way back to tie the game in the second half before louisville ultimately win 77-68 .
mississippi be play amid some controversy , as head coach andy kennedy deny charge of physical assault and racial remark toward a cab driver .
several other player have big night on thursday in addition to the record-setting night from hansbrough .
louisville 's earl clark finish he team 's victory with 25 point and 16 rebound , both career high .
clark actually have 17 point in just over the first eight minute of the game , account for 17 of he team 's first 24 point .
clark 's hot start help louisville to jump out on ole miss by a score of 32-14 midway through the first half .
cincinnati be lead by deonta vaughn .
vaughn finish with 16 point and nine rebound , score 14 in a four-minute stretch that result in a 20-2 run to close the half .
despite evanville 's loss to unc , one of they player be able to top hansbrough in the score column .
shy ely put up 23 point against the tar heel .
ely be a senior hope to help lead the purple ace to the top of the missouri valley conference this season .
western kentucky , the same team that have give louisville its only loss of the season , earn a huge victory in they first conference game of the season by win on the road against south alabama .
western kentucky and south alabama have dominate the sun belt conference in recent year , and both make the ncaa tournament last season .
the hilltopper be lead by 20-point effort from guard a.j. slaughter and orlando mendez-valdez .
three team go into game on thursday night try to earn they first victory of the season .
congratulation be in order for north florida , who beat furman 77-66 .
the other two team be not as fortunate .
north carolina central drop to 0-13 after a 66-51 loss to winstom-salem and texa southern move to 0-10 after absorb a blowout loss to no. 9-ranked gonzaga .
publish friday , march 8 , 2013 at 12 : 46 pm / update at 12 : 48 pm .
mcdermott become cu '' be all - time score leader .
with a first - half free throw , junior forward doug mcdermott score he 11th point of the bluejay '' valley tournament opener and pass rodney buford to become the school '' be all - time score leader with 2 , 117 point .
mcdermott end the game with 2 , 129 point .
with he first five point of the game , mcdermott pass bob harstad -lrb- 2 , 110 -rrb- and the next six help he overtake buford -lrb- 2 , 116 -rrb- , the last two player ahead of he on the bluejay '' career score chart .
it take buford and harstad four season to amass they point total .
mcdermott have notch he in 105 game over three season .
top-ranked north carolina wait for tyler hansbrough to make history , then cruise to its latest lopsided victory .
hansbrough score 20 point last night to break the storied program 's career score record and help the tar heel -lrb- 10-0 -rrb- remain unbeaten with a 91-73 victory over visit evansville -lrb- 7-2 -rrb- .
the reign national player of the year pass phil ford for the record midway through the first half .
ford , now a assistant coach to fellow tar heel alumnus larry brown with the nba charlotte bobcat , finish he career in 1978 with 2,290 point .
as soon as the record-setting shot go through the net , official briefly stop the game to allow ford , coach roy william and athletic director dick baddour to present hansbrough with the game ball .
'' i never dream i would be here and be the all-time lead scorer , '' hansbrough say as he stand alone at midcourt after the game .
'' this be a great honor to be here and to represent you guy every night in this uniform . '' .
shy ely score 23 point for the purple ace .
ott '' s thought : creighton return to mvc semi with win over drake .
post on march 09 , 2013 .
the roar .
my goodness , the roar .
take approximately 7 , 000 creighton hoop fan .
ply they with a cocktail or two .
heap a few heavy dash of high expectation for the weekend , and shake it all up with one big sense of be on vacation .
that concoction look like a blue - out in the scottrade center .
it sound like a overwhelming tidal wave of blue - clad crazy crash onto the hard court after every doug mcdermott make and terrible officiate call .
creighton fan overtake the turnstile in st . loui friday afternoon .
they come from all over the midwest and beyond to see cu win the weekend , and the bluejay oblige the first of three requisite win for a arch madness championship .
drake put up a fight ; the bulldog twice cut creighton '' s lead to 3 point midway through the second half .
but a 15 - 2 run during 5 minute late in the game seal the deal for the jay , who will meet indiana state in the semifinal saturday afternoon after the sycamore outlast evansville 51 - 50 friday .
creighton '' s win over drake be historic for a few reason , chief among they mcdermott set the creighton career score record .
mcdermott score 10 of the team '' s first 17 point , display a mix of three - point touch and the ability to finish around the rim .
you know , classic dougie fresh .
those 10 point tie mcdermott with rodney buford , creighton '' be all - time lead scorer .
and as those of we in the crowd who pay attention to such thing hold off on a bathroom or beer trip to watch he score one more point to break the record , mcdermott wouldn '' t do so for another 8 minute of game time .
still , it be inevitable .
and a bit anticlimactic , frankly , when he toe the free throw line and set the record with a one - for - two trip to the charity stripe .
still , that mcdermott break rodzilla '' s record in just three season be wild to I .
i '' m lucky to say i '' ve be able to watch mcdermott , buford , bob harstad , and chad gallagher -- the school '' s top four scorer in history -- during my time on earth cheer for the jay .
but have you tell I after that ncaa tournament game in 1999 that buford '' s record would be best by a guy in only three season , i '' d have call you nut .
or , as the kid around the valley type on twitter right now , #nutz .
as for the entirety of he afternoon , mcdermott be usual dependable doug .
with a building full of nba scout hang on he move -lrb- and , later , on illinois state '' s jackie carmichael '' s ridiculous individual performance -rrb- , mcdermott score 23 point and grab 7 rebound in 35 minute .
he leave the court to chant of '' one more year ! one more year ! one more year ! '' .
indeed .
but for all of mcdermott '' s historic accomplishment and he game - high score output , the storyline from the cu side of thing be the combine play of gregory echenique and will artino .
echenique hadn '' t score much in two game against drake earlier this season : he put up just 2 point in a 30 - point cu win in omaha , and then battle foul trouble all night in des moines as drake upset cu .
and he go scoreless in the first half friday .
but up step artino , echenique '' s sub when the cu coaching staff go in favor of size and a high / low game instead of ethan wragge '' s shoot touch from deep .
friday afternoon , artino give the bluejay 14 energize and efficient minute .
enter february , he have play double - digit minute in just six game .
since the calendar flip from january , though , he '' s have five such game .
friday be arguably he most important performance of the season , give the stake .
artino check in at the under - 16 : 00 media timeout and immediately break a 12 - 12 tie with a dunk .
foul on the flush , he finish the traditional three - point play with a free throw .
two trip later , artino miss a shot but secure the follow and score again .
he would grab two more rebound before check out with 9 : 07 to play in the first half .
while he be in , creighton '' s lead grow as great as 9 point .
in 8 first - half minute , the guy teammate and fan call big swag score 7 point and rip down 5 rebound .
he play the high - low possession well .
while drake hold echenique scoreless in the first half , artino be able to find success .
he finish the day with a career - high 14 point and 6 rebound -lrb- 5 on the offensive glass -rrb- .
in the second half , though , echenique get , um , engage with thing .
he score all 11 of he point , grab 6 of he team - high 11 rebound , and swat 5 of he season - high 6 block shot -lrb- the 6 block be second - most in a mvc tournament game -rrb- .
during the game '' s decide 15 - 2 run , echenique score two traditional three - point play , grab 3 of he 11 rebound , and block two shot .
hammer on a no - call and force to play at a disadvantage base on inconsistent refer in the frontcourt , echenique seem fire up .
he flex a few time , too , so as to remind the bulldog who the alpha dog in the paint be on friday afternoon .
the tournament '' s top seed stick around for semifinal saturday .
the 1998 bradley brave remain the only play - in winner to advance past the quarterfinal , when they beat a two - seed creighton team .
wichita state survive a close game against missouri state friday evening , and illinois state break away late from northern iowa to advance as the six - seed .
the valley will have four solid fan basis represent in the scottrade center saturday afternoon , with white and blue and black and gold the predominant color swirl around the lower bowl .
the day set up for some solid matchup .
the last time the two team play , indiana state make creighton look completely lose .
a black out crowd in terre haute help the sycamore to a resounding win .
meanwhile , it take a carmichael karate kick and other late - game miscue for illinois state to practically hand over a win to wichita state in normal .
tyler hansbrough score 20 thursday night to break north carolina 's career score record and help the no. 1 tar heel remain unbeaten with a 91-73 victory over evansville in chapel hill , n.c .
the reign national player of the year finish 7-for-14 from the field and have nine rebound for north carolina -lrb- 10-0 -rrb- , which shake off a slow start and stretch the lead to double figure shortly after hansbrough pass phil ford for the record midway through the first half .
ford , now a assistant coach to larry brown with the nba 's charlotte bobcat , finish he career in 1978 with 2,290 point .
creighton doug mcdermott return for senior season .
doug mcdermott '' s teammate figure it be just another day in the gym wednesday afternoon .
they be play pick - up game with a guy they didn '' t know for sure would be around next season .
but mcdermott have a secret .
shortly before hit the court , mcdermott have tell he father , creighton coach greg mcdermott , that he intend to return for he senior season rather than declare for the nba draft .
father and son then inform creighton athletic director bruce rasmussen .
doug call he mom to break the news to she , then step into the gym to play a little ball .
'' he wasn '' t act any different , '' grant gibb say .
'' business as usual . '' .
later that night , mcdermott let the news slip to a couple of they .
'' i have to go to class today , know that he be go to announce it , and try to be super low - key , '' jahenn manigat say .
'' but i couldn '' t stop smile . '' .
it '' be safe to assume bluejay nation have much the same reaction when , shortly before 2 p . m . , mcdermott send out the follow message on twitter .
'' i will be return to creighton for my senior year and can '' t wait to put on that uniform for one more season . '' .
mcdermott '' be return for he senior season will allow a fan base that have come to marvel at he on - court accomplishment the past three season one more chance to watch he .
college basketball insider see he return possibly give creighton more of a fight chance as it move into the new big east .
for mcdermott , it will give he a chance to make more of a orderly transition from college basketball to professional basketball .
he know he '' be take a risk from a financial standpoint .
'' that '' be definitely a lot of money i '' m pass down , but that money could be there next year , '' mcdermott tell reporter thursday .
'' it might not be quite as much , but you really can '' t put a price tag on a senior year . '' .
that be the same theme that mcdermott touch on repeatedly wednesday night in a exclusive interview with the world - herald .
in the final analysis , mcdermott '' s heart win out over the cash .
'' my heart have be tell I all along to stay , but my mind try to take over a couple of time , '' mcdermott say .
'' i just end up trust myself that i be make the right decision . '' .
he mind , of course , focus on the financial benefit that might be he have he decide to turn professional .
base on evaluation he receive from the nba draft advisory committee , mcdermott say , '' there be no doubt in my mind that i would have be a first - round pick . '' .
that would have mean a two - year , guarantee contract that could have be worth between a minimum of 888 , 600 to 1 . 4 million if he have be select with one of the last 15 pick in the lower half of the first round .
that initially have he father recommend that he son turn pro .
'' he know my dream be to play in the nba , and he just feel that this be too good of a opportunity to pass up , '' doug say .
'' but the way i look at it , if i can play in the nba , i can play there the next year just as well as i can next year .
'' i feel there be thing i can work on .
i feel i can still improve my draft stock by play in the big east .
there be a lot of area that i can get better at , and i just feel i '' d be more comfortable do it here in omaha . '' .
mcdermott have hear more than once from outsider that he should turn pro because he have nothing leave to prove as a collegian .
the 6 - foot - 8 , 225 - pound forward have be a consensus first - team all - american in each of the past two season .
he break creighton '' s career score record near the end of the last season .
that argument might have sway some player , but if there be anything mcdermott have show the past three season it '' be that he '' be a unconventional superstar .
he remain as unassuming as the day he step on campus in june 2010 .
he embrace the attention from a adoring fan base that some player might find stifle .
it '' be that fan base , mcdermott say , that figure prominently into he decision .
'' i care so much about creighton , '' he say .
'' there be a lot of people around here that believe in I .
this whole fan base have be with I from the start .
i feel like i owe they one more year . '' .
mcdermott say the opportunity to play in the new conference become more of a factor as he get deeper into the decision - make process .
he admit have creighton remain in the missouri valley it might have make it easier to turn pro .
but the opportunity to play in the big east , and perhaps prove a few people wrong , be too much to pass up .
'' i feel there be a lot of people that don '' t believe we can be successful in the big east , '' mcdermott say .
'' if you ask anyone on we team , we feel that we '' be go to be capable of do some damage there .
'' that play into my decision a lot .
i care for the guy in this program and i care for the coach .
i want to do what i could to help make this transition a successful one . '' .
what didn '' t factor into he decision , he say , be the fear that he would be leave he dad in a tight spot have he bolt for the nba .
as greg mcdermott say thursday , he son '' s 23 point and eight rebound a game will come in handy next season .
but doug say he father and creighton would have be fine have he decide to leave .
'' he never push for I to stay , '' doug say .
in a interview with the world - herald on tuesday , mcdermott indicate he might remain undecided until sunday '' be deadline to declare for the draft .
the agony of the decision - make process be apparent as he speak .
he clearly be undecided .
in discuss he decision wednesday night , mcdermott say he never intend to take so long in make up he mind .
'' i apologize for put people through that , '' he say .
in try to make up he mind , mcdermott say , he put he emotion to a test .
he would go through one day with the idea in mind that he be head for the nba .
the next day , he would approach thing as if he would be return to creighton .
'' i want to see how i feel , '' mcdermott say .
'' i find myself wake up the next day feel a whole lot better when i be think about come back .
but i go back and forth more time than you can imagine . '' .
he say tuesday that he have talk with former creighton all - american kyle korver , now in he 10th season in the nba .
mcdermott also seek the counsel of harrison barne , he former teammate at ame high school who now be wrap up he rookie season with the golden state warrior .
'' he and i talk before the ncaa tournament , and he tell I i should go to the nba if i feel i be 100 percent ready , '' mcdermott say .
'' that really stick with I .
'' harrison tell I that play in the nba be a completely different world .
the money be nice , but you '' be out there fight for you job every night .
it '' be not like college , where you '' be play for the love of the game and for the fan . '' .
in the end , those factor appeal more to mcdermott than money .
'' i believe i '' m go to play in the nba , but i have to do it when i feel i '' m 100 percent ready , '' he say .
'' i feel like i have some unfinished business here at creighton .
i feel like i can be a lot better , and why not do it here where i can have fun for another year .
'' i '' m so relieved .
i feel like a ton of weight have be lift off my shoulder .
i can '' t put into word how happy i be this be behind I and how excited i be to be come back .
this just feel right . '' .
hansbrough , who come back for he senior season after be crown the national player of the year , move into the top spot with a tough leaner in the lane with two evansville defender hang on he with 7:42 leave in the first half .
jon scheyer and kyle singler each log 22 point , as the second-ranked duke blue devil fend off a late davidson rally to top the wildcat , 79-67 , at cameron indoor stadium .
scheyer also dish out four assist while singler add six rebound for duke -lrb- 13-1 -rrb- , which win its fifth straight game and move to 9-0 at home .
gerald henderson contribute 11 point and seven board to the win effort .
the nation 's lead scorer , stephen curry , post a game-high 29 point to go with eight rebound and six assist .
but the sharpshooter go just 1-for-8 from three-point range and have seven of davidson 's 17 turnover in the loss .
andrew lovedale finish with 15 point while pull down seven board for the wildcat -lrb- 10-3 -rrb- , whose three loss this season have all come against rank opponent .
tyler hansbrough have 24 point and seven rebound in a balanced attack , and the third-ranked north carolina tar heel bounce back from they first loss with a 108-70 rout of the college of charleston cougar .
deon thompson have 15 point for the tar heel -lrb- 14-1 -rrb- , who be beat at home by boston college , 85-78 , on sunday .
danny green score 14 point , while ty lawson post 15 point and eight assist in the win .
wayne ellington contribute 10 point for north carolina .
tony white , jr. have a team-high 16 point for the college of charleston -lrb- 10-3 -rrb- , which have lose two straight after a 10-game win streak .
antwaine wiggin and donavan monroe each have 12 point in the loss .
andy rautin score 17 point and add six assist , lead 11th-ranked syracuse to a 85-68 win over depaul at the carrier dome .
arinze onuaku total 14 point and 12 rebound for the orange -lrb- 15-1 , 3-0 big east -rrb- , who have win six in a row since fall to cleveland state on december 15 .
paul harris finish with 14 point , nine board and four block , while eric devendorf chip in 13 point .
dar tucker pour in 18 point for the blue demon -lrb- 8-8 , 0-3 -rrb- , who have drop four of they last five game .
will walker netted 13 point and mac koshwal pull down 13 rebound to go along with a 12-point effort .
matt bouldin score 26 point , as gonzaga dominate overtime to record a 89-79 win over 15th-ranked tennessee , snap the volunteer ' 37-game home win streak .
wednesday 's matchup be the second meeting between the school this season , as gonzaga also beat tennessee , 83-74 , in the title game of the old spice classic on november 30th .
as for the vol ' home win streak , the 37 game be a school record and it have be the second-longest active streak in the nation -- second only to notre dame 's 44 .
austin daye finish with 20 point and eight rebound for gonzaga -lrb- 9-4 -rrb- , which snap a three-game losing streak .
josh heytvelt add 15 point and 12 board in the win for the bulldog .
cameron tatum have 22 point to pace tennessee -lrb- 9-4 -rrb- , which have lose two in a row .
tyler smith add 17 point for the vol before appear to suffer a left knee injury late in overtime .
wayne chism have a career-high 19 board and 15 point in the loss .
jeremy lin post a game-high 27 point with eight assist , as harvard shocked 17th-ranked boston college , 82-70 , at conte forum .
oliver mcnally have 17 point , include a 10-for-11 mark from the foul line , for the crimson -lrb- 8-6 -rrb- , who record they first-ever win over a rank team .
andrew pusar add 13 , while doug miller score eight point with nine board .
corey rajus post 16 point for the eagle -lrb- 13-3 -rrb- , who have win 10 consecutive game , include a 85-78 shocker at then-no 1 north carolina on sunday .
tyrese rice add 14 point , and joe trapanus have 12 in a surprising setback .
wesley matthew post a game-high 23 point thanks to perfect 10-for-10 shooting from the floor , with a team-best six rebound as 18th-ranked marquette slip by rutger , 81-76 , at the rac .
jerel mcneal post 16 point for the golden eagle -lrb- 14-2 , 3-0 big east -rrb- , winner in six straight game dominic jame add 15 point with six assist .
mike rosario score 22 point for the scarlet knight -lrb- 9-7 , 0-3 -rrb- , who drop they fourth in a row , all to rank opponent .
corey chandler chip in with 19 point and seven board while jr inman post a game-high eight rebound in the loss .
earl clark finish with 22 point and nine rebound , as 23rd-ranked louisville open its big east slate with a 71-57 win over south florida .
edgar sosa add 12 point for the cardinal -lrb- 10-3 , 1-0 big east -rrb- , who have win two in a row since a loss to unlv on new year 's eve .
louisville have open big east play with a loss in each of the past four season , but this season begin league play with a road win .
however , the cardinal do so against the only team in the big east -- which have nine team rank in the ap top 25 -- with a lose record .
south florida -lrb- 5-9 , 0-2 -rrb- have lose four of its last five game overall , and two in a row , after open its big east schedule last friday with a loss to syracuse .
dominique jone have 11 point and five board in the loss for the bull , while augustus gilchrist also chip in 11 point .
mcdermott set score record as man basketball top drake .
release : 03 / 08 / 2013 .
doug mcdermott become the lead scorer in creighton history and have five point during a pivotal 15 - 2 run as top - seed creighton defeat drake , 65 - 53 , on friday afternoon in the first quarterfinal of the missouri valley conference tournament .
creighton improve to 25 - 7 on the season and advance to play saturday in a 1 : 35 pm semifinal against indiana state .
drake , which defeat bradley in the play - in round just 18 hour earlier , fall to 15 - 17 .
creighton break open a 12 - all game with some strong play by will artino to key a 7 - 0 run .
the sophomore center from iowa come off the bench and dunk to start a traditional three - point play .
mcdermott would follow with a jumper to tie the score record , and artino answer with another bucket to make it 19 - 12 with 11 : 43 leave in the first half .
mcdermott history - make point come at the foul line , when he sink a free throw with 4 : 43 leave in the first half .
it give he 2 , 117 career point , pass rodney buford career mark that have stand since 1999 and move he into 10th in mvc history .
the jay lead 33 - 26 at the half , pace by 13 point from mcdermott .
cu dominate the glass 22 - 13 , the paint -lrb- 16 - 10 -rrb- and the second chance point -lrb- 9 - 0 -rrb- in the first 20 minute , while also outscore du 12 - 3 off the bench .
creighton would take its first double - digit lead of the day at 45 - 35 on a pair of artino free throw with 13 : 41 to go .
drake counter with a 9 - 2 run and miss a tie trey by richard carter with about 10 : 00 to play .
the jay answer , as echenique throw down a powerful alley - oop during a three - point play and the lead return to 54 - 46 a short time later on austin chatman first score of the second half and a mcdermott hoop in transition to move ahead by eight with 7 : 54 to go .
after a timeout , mcdermott hit he third trifecta of the day , and echenique third three - point play of the day make it 60 - 46 with 6 : 11 to go .
gibb end the run with two charity shot , and the jay would keep drake off the scoreboard for nearly seven minute to pull away .
mcdermott lead all player with 23 point while also grab seven rebound .
he make 3 - of - 4 three attempt from 3 - point range .
echenique generate a double - double with 11 point , 11 rebound and six swat , with most of that production after half .
artino complement echenique inside by score a career - high 14 point and add six rebound .
the jay shoot 46 . 8 percent for the game -lrb- 22 - 47 -rrb- and own the glass by a 44 - 26 margin .
drake be pace by 13 point from seth vandeest , while richard carter have 12 point and four assist .
drake shot 35 . 0 percent overall and just 11 - of - 36 after intermission .
the win improved creighton to 41 - 20 all - time in mvc tournament play , easily the most victory by any team in event history .
the jay be 19 - 12 all - time in the quarterfinal round , and 5 - 2 all - time vs . drake in the event .
hansbrough set score record in victory .
top-ranked north carolina wait for tyler hansbrough to make history , then cruise to its latest lopsided victory .
hansbrough score 20 point thursday night , break north carolina 's career score record , and the tar heel beat visit evansville , 91-73 .
hansbrough , the reign national player of the year , pass phil ford for the record midway through the first half .
ford finish he career in 1978 with 2,290 point .
hansbrough now have 2,301 .
hansbrough need 9 point come in and set the record with a bank shot over two defender with 7 minute 41 seconds to go .
after the game , the university show a video montage of hansbrough 's career highlight , and he briefly address the crowd .
'' i never dream i would be here and be the all-time lead scorer , '' hansbrough say as he stand alone at midcourt .
'' this be a great honor to be here and to represent you guy every night in this uniform . '' .
ty lawson add 16 point for the tar heel , and danny green have 14 , include the 1,000 of he career .
shy ely have 23 point for the purple ace -lrb- 7-2 -rrb- .
friday , march 08 , 2013 .
arch madness : creighton 65 , drake 5 .
doug mcdermott score 23 point to become creighton all - time score leader and the top - seed bluejay defeat drake 65 - 53 on friday in the quarterfinal of the missouri valley conference tournament .
creighton -lrb- 25 - 7 -rrb- will play the winner of friday second semifinal between evansville and indiana state .
will artino score 14 point off the bench and gregory echenique have 11 point , 11 rebound and six block shot for creighton , which enjoy a 44 - 26 rebound edge .
grant gibb have eight of the bluejay 11 assist .
mcdermott , a junior , now have 2 , 129 point - - 13 more than rodney buford , who play for the bluejay from 1995 - 99 .
richard carter score 14 point and seth vandeest score 13 for the ninth - seed bulldog -lrb- 15 - 17 -rrb- .
jordan clarke have 10 rebound for drake , which reach the quarterfinal by beat bradley on thursday night .
tyler hansbrough score 20 point to break north carolina 's career score record and help the top-ranked tar heel remain unbeaten with a 91-73 victory over evansville on thursday night .
the reign national player of the year finish 7-for-14 from the field and have nine rebound for north carolina -lrb- 10-0 -rrb- , which shake off a slow start and stretch the lead to double figure shortly after hansbrough pass phil ford for the record midway through the first half .
ford , now a assistant coach with the nba 's charlotte bobcat , finish he career in 1978 with 2,290 point .
hansbrough , who need nine point come in , tie ford on a jumper from the left wing with 14:05 leave in the first half .
he set the record by muscle in a bank shot over two defender with 7:41 to go .
ty lawson add 16 point for the tar heel , while danny green have 14 , include the 1,000 of he career .
shy ely score 23 point for the purple ace -lrb- 7-2 -rrb- .
creighton defeat drake 65 - 53 in mvc tournament .
mar . 8 5 : 46 pm est .
doug mcdermott score 23 point to become creighton all - time score leader and the top - seed bluejay defeat drake 65 - 53 on friday in the quarterfinal of the missouri valley conference tournament .
in saturday semifinal , creighton -lrb- 25 - 7 -rrb- will play no . 5 seed indiana state , which defeat evansville 51 - 50 on friday .
will artino score 14 point off the bench and gregory echenique have 11 point , 11 rebound and six block shot for creighton , which enjoy a 44 - 26 rebound edge .
grant gibb have eight of the bluejay 11 assist .
mcdermott , a junior , now have 2 , 129 point -- 13 more than rodney buford , who play for the bluejay from 1995 - 99 .
richard carter score 14 point and seth vandeest score 13 for the ninth - seed bulldog -lrb- 15 - 17 -rrb- .
jordan clarke have 10 rebound for drake , which reach the quarterfinal by beat bradley on thursday night .
hansbrough break unc 's career score record the carolina way .
during the spring of 1977 , north carolina coach dean smith invite he star guard phil ford , who have just complete he junior season , into he office .
smith tell ford that he have do some research on where ford would be select in the upcome nba draft base on that information , he recommend to ford that he leave school .
ford do not even have to think about it .
he tell smith right away that he be not interested .
'' at the time , a lot of people be not do that , so go pro be not something i have even consider at all , '' ford say .
'' the financial situation be different back then as well .
at the time , my parent be teacher , so get my degree be very important to I .
the opportunity be not worth I not get my degree . '' .
last april , tyler hansbrough face a similar decision , but under much different circumstance .
hansbrough play in a era when not only be it common for undergraduate to turn pro , but in some circle a player be consider a failure if he stay past he junior year .
needless to say , he face a financial opportunity much greater than the one ford confront three decade ago .
hansbrough spend two full week torture himself over the impending decision .
when hansbrough finally tell roy william he want to return for he senior year , he feel like the weight of the world be off he shoulder .
he be so relieved that he do not even leave the weight room when william ask he to come to he office so they could craft a press release .
'' it be a stressful process , '' hansbrough say in mid-october .
'' you be think about what you be go to do with the rest of you life .
every time i think about leave , i think about how much i would miss come home , live with my teammate and do a lot of the fun thing we do .
i just feel like come back would be the best situation for I . '' .
in consider that life decision , it be doubtful hansbrough give much thought to the chance he would have to become north carolina 's alltime score leader if he return .
still , give the century 's worth of tradition that have reign in chapel hill , it be no small feat that hansbrough accomplish thursday night , when he break ford 's school career score mark with less than eight minute to play in the first half of north carolina 's game against evansville .
north carolina have establish itself as the gold standard of college basketball , and in the soft-spoken , hard-charging , 6-foot-9 power forward from poplar bluff , missouri , this proud program have a worthy standard bearer .
ford be correct when he say that people be not appreciative enough of hansbrough 's skill , but there be no doubt that what set this young man apart be the intensity with which he play .
if ford be a classical symphony , hansbrough be a heavy metal rock concert , power , jostle , bang , and always , always out-hustle he opponent en route to the basket .
it be instructive that while hansbrough remain ninth on the acc 's alltime score list , he be already the league 's career leader in free throw attempt .
if he stay healthy , he will likely leave north carolina as the school 's alltime rebound king .
more than anything , though , tyler hansbrough deserve this record because he come back to school .
this be not to disparage player like michael jordan , antawn jamison and rashad mccant who might have have a shot at ford 's mark have they stay .
but at a place like north carolina , which embody team play , the score record should belong to a four-year player .
hansbrough would probably not have be a top-five draft pick have he leave , but it be unlikely he will signifcantly improve he draft status by play another year .
also , at the time hansbrough make he decision he be assume that at least one of he fellow undergraduate , and as many as three of they , would be turn pro , diminish the tar heel ' chance of win a championship .
hansbrough come back anyway , and for all the right reason .
ford also point out that because freshman be not eligible to play varsity ball from 1954-73 , a huge swath of mega talent who suit up for unc do not have the chance to hold onto this record -- include the man ford pass , lenny rosenbluth , who still hold the school 's record for career score average -lrb- 26.9 -rrb- and be fourth in point score .
hansbrough be sixth on the school 's career score average list at 20.2 .
still , it take a special individual to eclipse a record that have stand at a place like north carolina for 30 year .
ford remember little about the night he pass rosenbluth .
he believe he break the record late in the first half , the game be not interrupted , and neither he nor rosenbluth have much to say about it .
in fact , rosenbluth be not even there that night .
when i ask ford if he still have the game ball , he say he think he might , but he have move so much in recent year -lrb- he work as a assistant coach for the detroit piston and new york knick before join the charlotte bobcat last year -rrb- that he think the ball may be pack away somewhere .
'' to be honest , i be just happy to get it over with , '' ford say .
'' i do not want anything distracting from the team . '' .
if the circumstance be different than they be in 1978 , the central tenet of the carolina way have endure , from rosenbluth to ford to hansbrough .
while offer he congratulation to hansbrough , ford be quick to add that the career score record be the least important mark at north carolina .
'' we never care who score the ball , '' he say , '' as long as someone with the carolina jersey get the ball in the basket . '' .
tyler hansbrough would be the first to agree , even as he jostle and bang he way towards history .
mcdermott fuel creighton past drake in mvc tournament opener .
post : friday , march 8 , 2013 2 : 39 pm .
doug mcdermott score 23 point friday and become creighton '' be all - time lead scorer in help the bluejay to a 65 - 53 victory over drake at the quarterfinal of the missouri valley tournament .
mcdermott break rodney buford '' s school score record of 2 , 116 point with a free throw with 4 : 43 to play in the first half .
mcdermott now have 2 , 129 point head into saturday '' be semifinal against the winner of friday '' be second quarterfinal between evansville and indiana state .
creighton also get 14 point from backup center will artino , while start center gregory echenique score 11 point , all in the second half , to help the top - seed bluejay shake the stubborn bulldog .
drake , which have defeat bradley in thursday '' s play - in round , hang with creighton for about 30 minute before run out of gas and end its season 15 - 17 .
creighton , with more than 6 , 000 fan cheer it on at the scottrade center , improve to 25 - 7 .
seth vandeest lead drake with 13 point , while richard carter add 12 for the bulldog .
creighton get five point from echenique in the first 1/2 minute of the second half as the bluejay add a point to they 33 - 26 halftime lead when the center convert a three - point play to make it 41 - 33 .
artino pick up the slack in the first half as he score seven point .
five come in a 7 - 0 run that allow the bluejay to go from be tie with the bulldog at 12 - 12 to a 19 - 12 lead .
artino strike again in the second half , score four straight point on a dunk and two free throw that allow creighton to open a 45 - 36 lead with 13 : 41 to play .
drake get basket from carter and ben simon to close within six again , then make it a 45 - 42 game when simon bury a 3 - pointer from the corner with 11 minute to play .
artino '' s putback on the next possession put creighton up 47 - 42 but vandeest '' be basket pull drake back within three .
after a creighton turnover , drake have a chance to tie but richard carter couldn '' t convert a open look , 3 - point shot .
echenique '' s three - point play stretch the creighton lead to 50 - 44 , and the bluejay get basket from austin chatman and mcdermott on they next two possession to make it 54 - 46 with 7 : 54 to play .
mcdermott then bury a 3 - point shot come off a screen to make it 57 - 46 with 7 : 02 remain .
after echenique block a shot on drake '' s end , he turn a rebound into a three - point play to make it 60 - 46 .
two grant gibb free throw hike the run to 12 - 0 , make it 62 - 46 before drake snap its scoreless string with two free throw with 1 : 41 to play .
hansbrough break 30-year-old unc score mark .
forward tyler hansbrough break north carolina 's all-time score record in thursday 's game against evansville .
phil ford 's school mark of 2,290 point set in 1978 hold strong amongst a plethora of talented tar heel over the year , but hansbrough , who come back for he senior season after be crown the national player of the year , move into the top spot with a tough leaner in the lane with two purple ace defender hang on he with 7:42 leave in the first half .
the game be stop and ford be on hand to congratulate hansbrough at half-court .
the missouri native suffer through a shin injury earlier in the season that force he to miss four game .
in the five game he play before thursday 's action , hansbrough average a team-high 22.8 point to go with 7.2 rebound .
in 113 career game prior to thursday , the forward have log 20.2 point and 8.6 rebound in just under 31 minute a outing , while do a lot of damage at the free throw line with nearly nine attempt per game .
hansbrough , who have a outside shot at edge duke great j.j. redick for the all-time acc score record -lrb- 2,769 point -rrb- , have succeed in just about every statistical category , though he be still search for the elusive fifth national title for the program , which move to 10-0 after its 91-73 drubbing of evansville .
hansbrough finish the game with 20 point and nine rebound .
2013 mvc tournament result and bracket : creighton , wichita st . move on .
on mar 8 2013 , 11 : 55p .
the missouri valley conference , aka arch madness , certainly live up to its nickname on friday .
eight team compete in the quarterfinal round , and have already have one memorable last - second game .
now there just four team leave fight for the automatic bid on saturday .
let recap friday action .
no . 1 creighton bluejay 65 , no . 9 drake bulldog 53 .
doug mcdermott put on a show as usual , score 23 point and become the school all - time leader in point score .
he have help from he teammate , as well , as gregory echenique finish with a double - double -lrb- 11 point , 11 rebound -rrb- .
the bulldgo never let this game turn into a blowout , but they never come close enough to make creighton sweat , either .
the bluejay will play indiana state on saturday .
hansbrough break unc career score record .
phil ford stand at midcourt , wait for tyler hansbrough to take the microphone and address the home crowd .
as the reign national player of the year walk up , ford playfully bow in reverence before give he a hug .
now even the famed point guard who flawlessly run dean smith 's '' four corner '' offense be look up at hansbrough as the storied program 's all-time lead scorer .
hansbrough score 20 point thursday night to break ford 's 30-year-old mark and help top-ranked north carolina beat evansville 91-73 , a game that be completely overshadow by the 6-foot-9 senior 's record pursuit .
he need just nine point come in , make the record a almost certainty consider that he be fail to reach double figure just six time in he career .
but that do not mean hansbrough be oblivious to all the attention about a record that have stand through the career of name like michael jordan , jame worthy and antawn jamison .
'' i be usually not nervous before game , and i be a little nervous before tonight just because i feel like there be a lot of pressure , '' say hansbrough , who sit between ford and coach roy william during the postgame news conference .
'' one thing for I , i do not want we to strictly focus on try to break a score record .
we have a game and i be try to do whatever i could to help the team . '' .
hansbrough finish 7-for-14 from the field and have nine rebound for north carolina -lrb- 10-0 -rrb- , which shake off a slow start and stretch the lead to double figure against the purple ace -lrb- 7-2 -rrb- shortly after hansbrough pass ford midway through the first half .
ford , now a assistant coach to fellow tar heel alumnus larry brown with the nba 's charlotte bobcat , finish he career in 1978 with 2,290 point .
'' i think everyone who know I know how much i love this program and to be a small part of this historic moment for tyler be a dream come true for I , '' ford say .
'' i would not have miss it for the world .
'' it be a honor to be compare in the same breath with tyler .
when i look at how hard he play and how he listen to coach william , as a player , that be what i try to do . '' .
hansbrough tie ford on a jumper from the left wing with 14:05 leave in the first half , then set the record by muscle in a bank shot over jame haarsma and pieter van tongeren with 7:41 to go .
as soon as the record-setting shot go through the net , official briefly stop the game to allow ford , william and athletics director dick baddour to present hansbrough with the game ball .
student who carry small sign say '' phil ford 2,290 '' on one side turn it around to reveal '' tyler 2,291 + '' on the other .
hansbrough wave to acknowledge the roar crowd and handle the historic moment with he typically reserve demeanor , though he seem eager to get back to the game and away from the focus be on he .
after the game , the school show a video montage of hansbrough 's career highlight that include congratulation from several former player .
that be when hansbrough take the microphone from ford and emotionally address the crowd .
'' i never dream i would be here and be the all-time lead scorer , '' hansbrough say as he stand alone at midcourt .
'' this be a great honor to be here and to represent you guy every night in this uniform . '' .
it be a moment that fellow senior and roommate bobby frasor say show how much hansbrough appreciate the record even though he do not want to dwell on it in recent day .
'' i have never see he tear up or choke up like that , '' frasor say .
'' but tyler really do care about all this stuff and he know what he accomplish be pretty special . '' .
still , the tar heel seem a little tight and the home crowd anxious to see hansbrough set the record early .
but in the minute afterward , the tar heel settle down and outscore evansville 22-10 the rest of the half to take a 46-28 lead .
it lighten the mood enough that william - who say he be count down a player 's point in he head for probably the first time - be able to tease hansbrough on the bench after he miss a two-handed dunk on he first shot follow the record .
'' i say , boy , i be really glad that be not the basket that would have break the record , ' '' he say with a laugh .
the tar heel maintain a comfortable margin the rest of the way , crack the 90-point mark for the seventh straight game .
hansbrough leave the game for good with the tar heel lead 83-58 with 5:33 to play .
he still have a chance this season to pass sam perkin for the program 's career rebound record and break the atlantic coast conference career score mark set by duke 's j.j. redick in 2006 .
'' whatever tyler get , he deserve , '' evansville coach marty simmon say .
'' i have be a big fan of he since he be in high school .
it be good to see guy that work the hardest be reward the most . '' .
ty lawson add 16 point for the tar heel , while danny green have 14 , include the 1,000 of he career .
shy ely score 23 point to lead evansville , which be off to its best start since go 10-1 in 1981-82 .
the purple ace be play the no. 1 team for the first time since 1980 and just the third time ever .
mcdermott set cu score record .
find march 08 , 2013 .
doug mcdermott become the lead scorer in creighton history and have five point during a pivotal 15 - 2 run as top - seed creighton defeat drake , 65 - 53 , on friday afternoon in the first quarterfinal of the missouri valley conference tournament .
creighton improve to 25 - 7 on the season and advance to play saturday in a 1 : 35 pm semifinal against the winner of the evansville - indiana state semifinal .
drake , which defeat bradley in the play - in round just 18 hour earlier , fall to 15 - 17 .
creighton break open a 12 - all game with some strong play by will artino to key a 7 - 0 run .
the sophomore center from iowa come off the bench and dunk to start a traditional three - point play .
mcdermott would follow with a jumper to tie the score record , and artino answer with another bucket to make it 19 - 12 with 11 : 43 leave in the first half .
mcdermott history - make point come at the foul line , when he sink a free throw with 4 : 43 leave in the first half .
it give he 2 , 117 career point , pass rodney buford career mark that have stand since 1999 and move he into 10th in mvc history .
the jay lead 33 - 26 at the half , pace by 13 point from mcdermott .
cu dominate the glass 22 - 13 , the paint -lrb- 16 - 10 -rrb- and the second chance point -lrb- 9 - 0 -rrb- in the first 20 minute , while also outscore du 12 - 3 off the bench .
creighton would take its first double - digit lead of the day at 45 - 35 on a pair of artino free throw with 13 : 41 to go .
drake counter with a 9 - 2 run and miss a tie trey by richard carter with about 10 : 00 to play .
the jay answer , as echenique throw down a powerful alley - oop during a three - point play and the lead return to 54 - 46 a short time later on austin chatman first score of the second half and a mcdermott hoop in transition to move ahead by eight with 7 : 54 to go .
after a timeout , mcdermott hit he third trifecta of the day , and echenique third three - point play of the day make it 60 - 46 with 6 : 11 to go .
gibb end the run with two charity shot , and the jay would keep drake off the scoreboard for nearly seven minute to pull away .
mcdermott lead all player with 23 point while also grab seven rebound .
he make 3 - of - 4 three attempt from 3 - point range .
echenique generate a double - double with 11 point , 11 rebound and six swat , with most of that production after half .
artino complement echenique inside by score a career - high 14 point and add six rebound .
the jay shoot 46 . 8 percent for the game -lrb- 22 - 47 -rrb- and own the glass by a 44 - 26 margin .
drake be pace by 13 point from seth vandeest , while richard carter have 12 point and four assist .
drake shot 35 . 0 percent overall and just 11 - of - 36 after intermission .
the win improved creighton to 41 - 20 all - time in mvc tournament play , easily the most victory by any team in event history .
the jay be 19 - 12 all - time in the quarterfinal round , and 5 - 2 all - time vs . drake in the event .
millom double murder : man charge with kill mother and sister .
8 : 56am monday 10th june 2013 .
a man have be charge with the murder of he mother and sister in millom .
john jenkin , 23 , of newton street , millom be arrest saturday morning after police find two woman dead in a house .
the victim have be identify as mother alice mcmeekin , 58 , of newton street , millom and she 20 - year - old daughter kathryn jenkin of aberdare , south wale .
police have this morning charge he and he will appear before furness district magistrate .
he have also be charge with animal cruelty after the family dog be discover dead .
cumbria double murder : son suspect of kill mother and sister have beg to stay lock up in mental hospital .
sunday , 9 june 2013 .
john jenkin , 23 , have be section after a apparent suicide attempt in the week before the double murder .
he sister katie and mother alice mcmeekin be find dead at they home in millom .
authority say a 35-year-old new bedford man stab he ex-girlfriend and he own mother to death during a bloodbath inside he mom 's apartment and leave the body to rot for day .
gary gome , 35 , be arrest yesterday and will be arraign today in new bedford district court on two count of murder and one count of kidnapping in connection with the homicide , accord to the bristol district attorney 's office .
the body of robyn mende , 48 , gome ' ex-girlfriend , and gome ' mother , catherine gome , 61 , be find by police and firefighter yesterday in a second-floor apartment on independent street , say da spokesman gregg miliote .
both woman have be stab to death and they body have be there for '' day , '' miliote say .
catherine gome live in that apartment , he say .
police and firefighter be call to the address after neighbor report a strong smell of natural gas .
a gas stove have be leave on and a space heater be run , miliote say .
gome be arrest at a philip street apartment yesterday where mende life , miliote say .
police say gome have allegedly barricade himself in a room with another person .
miliote say gome be on probation when he be arrest .
the standard-time of new bedford be report today that gome have a lengthy criminal history .
he have just be release from the bristol county house of correction in late 2008 after serve time on a 2006 conviction of assault with intent to murder , the newspaper report .
robyn mende be the victim in that case .
in 2005 , he be charge with assault and battery on mende with a dangerous weapon , accord to court record , which indicate he grab she by the throat , throw she down , then hold a knife to she throat and tell she , '' you be never go to leave I , '' the newspaper report .
he be sentence to 2 year , with 9 month to serve in that case .
john jenkin : goth son hold as mum and sister kill .
10 jun 2013 09 : 10 .
john jenkin , 23 , be arrest near the terraced house where alice mcmeekin , 58 , and katie jenkin , 20 , and a dead dog , think to be the family pet collie , be discover .
a goth be be question on suspicion of murder yesterday after he mother and sister be find dead at home .
john jenkin , 23 , be arrest near the terraced house where alice mcmeekin , 58 , and katie jenkin , 20 , and a dead dog , think to be the family pet collie , be discover .
police be call by neighbour at breakfast time on saturday after they hear pierce scream come from the house .
one say : i hear scream , really high - pitched scream in the early hour .
then later i hear more scream .
it sound like someone tell a dog to shut up . '' .
alice live in the pebble - dash terrace in millom , cumbria , with unemployed john .
the neighbour describe he as a goth and he be say to have recently be in hospital .
katie be visit she mum from cardiff , where she be at university .
a close friend of the dead mum say : i not believe it .
they all look after each other after alice separate from she husband in the 1990s .
we be so close that katie thought of my mum as a second mum .
john be a good kid , never one of those to get into trouble .
he idolise he mum and he sister .
he little sister be he world , and he mum be too . '' .
alice be bring up in millom , where she father run a greengrocer and a fish shop .
she return to she home town 12 week ago after a four year spell living in cardiff .
friend notice she have lose weight and look frail .
it be think she may have be suffer from cancer .
another neighbour add : she go down to wale to give she kid a better life .
katie get into cardiff university , i think , and john be at college do something in special effect .
when alice come home , john come with she .
as far as i know he do have a girlfriend .
katie still live in wale and have be go out with she boyfriend for two year .
she come up for the weekend on friday .
alice meet she at the station . '' .
security worker alice have recently be upset by the death of one of she four cat and have take in a collie dog call fenn .
the friend say she be bubbly when she see she on friday .
she add : we be chat for about half a hour .
she tell I katie be come and she be so look forward to it . '' .
cumbria police have not disclose how alice and katie die .
a police spokesman say : we do not suspect anyone else to be involve . '' .
detective chief inspector paul duhig say : event such as these be rare in cumbria .
we be do all we can to bring the offender to justice . '' .
a man with a long history of domestic violence have be accuse of stab he mother and a former girlfriend to death and leave they body in a apartment for several day .
the unlit stove in the independence street apartment have be leave on full blast , authority say , fill it with enough natural gas to cause a significant explosion .
the body of katherine gome , 61 , and robyn norma mende , 48 , be discover on tuesday when police and firefighter respond to call about the smell of natural gas , accord to the bristol district attorney 's office a space heater have be leave turn to high , but it do not ignite the gas .
the man , gary gome , 35 , be expect to be arraign today in new bedford district court on two count of murder and one count of kidnapping .
gome be arrest on tuesday after investigator say they find he barricade in a room in mende 's apartment on philip street with she 12-year-old daughter .
he be with the girl for at least several hour before police arrive , accord to gregg miliote , a spokesman for the bristol district attorney .
gome have be incarcerate at least three time for violent crime against woman in the last four year and at one point be hold for 90 day without bail as a danger to society , accord to court record .
the alleged fatal stab would be at least he third attack against mende .
in 2005 , gome be convict of beat mende , hold a knife to she throat , and tell she , '' you be never go to leave I , '' accord to court record .
gome serve 9 month of a 2-1/2 year sentence .
he be release in 2006 and attack mende again , drag she into the wood .
police rescue she with the aid of dog , accord to court record .
mende go back to prison for 2-1/2 year and be recently release .
in 2004 , gome be charge with steal a $ 500 guitar from he sister , jean .
gome run into jean and he mother a few day later and he attack he sister , accord to court record .
'' defendant become violent and begin to choke the victim with both hand around she neck , '' the record state .
son suspect of kill mother and sister have beg to stay lock up in mental hospital .
john jenkin , 23 , release from secure mental hospital against he wish .
he sister katie jenkin , 20 , and mother alice mcmeekin , 58 , be find dead in a home in millom , cumbria .
relative say he have history of mental health problem .
police not search for any other suspect in connection with double murder .
publish : 16 : 05 gmt , 9 june 2013 | update : 06 : 55 gmt , 10 june 2013 .
a man say to have be release from a secure mental hospital against he wish be yesterday be question over the murder of he mother and sister .
john jenkin , 23 , have be section after a apparent suicide attempt in the week before the double murder .
accord to a relative , he have a history of mental health problem and have plead in vain to be keep lock up because he fear harm himself or someone else .
police be call to the family terraced house in millom , cumbria , at 8 . 40am on saturday and find the body of alice mcmeekin , 58 , and she university student daughter katie jenkin , 20 .
the family new pet collie , fenn , be also kill .
jenkin , who be describe as a goth , be arrest nearby on suspicion of murder .
he be say to have dote on he mother and younger sister , but the heavy metal fan be also obsess with the occult .
cumbria police have not reveal how the woman die , although no gun be use in the murder .
friend and neighbour be shock by the murder of the animal - loving divorce mother - of - two and she daughter , who be study in south wale and be on a weekend visit home .
yesterday a neighbour recall see the suspect in the street at 3am on saturday and also hear scream come from the pebble - dash house .
i be come back home at 3am with my girlfriend and i be walk up the back street and he be walk around and i look at he face and it be like look into space , there be nothing there , ' he say .
then i go home and i hear a lot of scream .
it sound like the scream of a dog .
i go into my backyard and i hear these pierce scream i will never forget . ' .
he do not contact the police , but more noise be hear at around 8am .
it sound like someone tell a dog to shut up , ' say the neighbour .
police be call and find the body .
jenkin , who be unemployed , spend much of he time on he computer and listen to music .
accord to a relative , he have suffer mental health problem for some time .
he have a very dark past , but i not want people to think he be some kind of monster , i just feel sorry for he , ' she say .
the relative say he be section under the mental health act for attempt to slit he wrist and then allow home again in the day before the tragedy .
she say he have tell health worker that he fear he would harm himself or someone else if he do not stay in a secure psychiatric unit .
john begged people for help , but he do get it , ' she say .
friend say john jenkin be close to he family .
one friend , who ask not to be name , say : he idolise he mum and he sister .
he little sister be he world , and he mum be too .
they all look after each other .
he be a good kid , never one of those to go out and get into trouble . ' .
mr mcmeekin be bring up in millom and be the daughter of a greengrocer .
she move to merthyr tydfil , south wale , four year ago to give she kid a better life , but return to she home town with john 12 week ago .
she work for the prison service and would do anything for anybody , accord to the friend .
katie , who be in a steady relationship with a boyfriend , stay in wale to continue she media study course .
she be a happy , beautiful girl with the world in front of she , ' say the friend .
she recall chat on friday to mrs mcmeekin , who be look forward to she daughter visit .
the new bedford man arrest last night on charge of double homicide kill he mother and ex-girlfriend , accord to police and prosecutor .
the suspect , gary gome , 35 , of new bedford , have a lengthy record of domestic abuse , include conviction for kidnapping and attempt murder .
he be currently on probation after he latest release from criminal custody .
the victim in the case have be identify as robyn mende , 48 - a ex-girlfriend of mr. gome - and catherine gome , 61 , the defendant 's mother .
gregg milliote , spokesman for the bristol county district attorney 's office , say both woman be stab multiple time at the independent street apartment in which they be find .
ms. gome be the tenant at the apartment .
follow he arraignment in new bedford district court today , mr. gome be order hold without bail .
at the arraignment , prosecutor aaron strojny say ms. mende be stab multiple time while in bed .
'' i -lrb- heart -rrb- you '' be write in blood on the wall and the suspect 's id be find on a pillow , he say , and allege the suspect later dress ms. mende and apply makeup .
ms. gome ' body be find under a mattress in a different room .
she have last be see saturday morning , prosecutor say , and when she employer call the apartment later that day to inquire why she have not report to work , a man who identify himself as gary say he mother have go away for a few day .
mr. gome be find tuesday night barricade in a dwelling on phillip road in the north end where ms. mende live .
ms. mende ' 12-year-old daughter be also in that dwelling at the time .
police say gome have be at that location for '' a few hour '' before he arrest .
they find a knife , which they identify as the murder weapon , behind a bookshelf .
mr. milliote say prosecutor believe mr. gome intend to kill one other person last night , although he would not say who that person be or what evidence lead prosecutor to believe that .
mr. gome have be release from the bristol county house of correction in late 2008 after serve time on a 2006 conviction of assault with intent to murder .
ms. mende be the victim in that case .
in 2005 , he be charge with assault and battery on ms. mende with a dangerous weapon , accord to court record , which indicate he grab she by the throat , throw she down , then hold a knife to she throat and tell she , '' you be never go to leave I . '' .
he be sentence to 21/2 21/2 year , with 9 month to serve in that case .
court record also indicate a previous arrest in which mr. gome be accuse of assault and battery on he sister after she accuse he of steal she guitar .
he mother be a witness to that incident .
ms. mende have obtain restrain order against mr. gome in 2005 and 2006 , accord to court record .
the victim ' body be discover inside the independent street apartment tuesday afternoon after the building 's landlord detect the odor of natural gas emanate from the second floor .
police say that after smell gas , the landlord , who have not be identify , send he adult son upstairs to investigate .
the son enter the apartment and find the body , police say .
the gas stove be run with no flame , police say , and a electric heater have be turn on in the apartment .
provisional trial date set for cumbria double murder accuse .
publish at 12 : 45 , wednesday , 12 june 2013 .
a provisional trial date have be set in the case of a son accuse of kill he mother , sister and pet dog .
a preliminary hearing for john jenkin , 23 , charge with the murder of he mum alice mcmeekin , 58 , and sister katie jenkin , 20 , take place at preston crown court this morning .
jenkin be due to appear via videolink from hmp preston but do not do so as he be consider a risk to he own safety and that of other people , say crown prosecutor susan carter .
the case be hear in he absence and a provisional trial date be set for october 28 , with a duration of three day .
the body of ms mcmeekin and miss jenkin be find in they house in newton street , millom , at about 8 . 40am on saturday .
the family border collie , name fenn , be find dead in the backyard of the house .
jenkin , who be arrest at millom pier at around 9 . 35am , be also face a charge of cause unnecessary suffer to a animal in relation to the dog death .
no application be make for bail and no plea be enter .
a plea and case management hearing will be hold on september 6 .
judge anthony russell qc ask for psychiatric report to be complete on jenkin before the next hearing .
gary gome of new bedford , massachusett , accuse in the death of two woman find in a city apartment , appear in court today .
police say the landlord 's son find the body yesterday after enter the second-floor apartment to investigate a odor of gas .
35-year-old gome face two count of murder after he mother and he ex-girlfriend be find stab to death inside a new bedford home yesterday afternoon .
gome be arrest last night on charge of murder and kidnapping .
61-year-old kathryn gome and 48-year-old robin mende be the victim .
police believe find gome so quickly may have save other life in this case .
10 june 2013 last update at 14 : 00 gmt .
john jenkin accuse of millom mother and sister murder .
a man have be remand in custody after be charge with the murder of he mother and sister in cumbria .
the body of alice mcmeekin , 58 , and kathryn jenkin , 20 , be find at a terraced house in newton street , millom , on saturday .
both have suffer head injury .
the family dog have also be kill .
john jenkin , 23 , be remand in he absence by barrow magistrate , after the court hear he be deem a risk to himself and potentially to other .
no plea be enter and a bail hearing be schedule for wednesday at preston crown court .
untimely death .
mr jenkin , of newton street , millom , who arrest a hour after the body be discover in a distressed state , have also be charge with animal cruelty .
friend of kathryn jenkin , know as katie , have describe she as a bright and much - like student . '' .
miss jenkin be a student at the university of south wale in cardiff .
gill sandford , dean of the faculty of creative and cultural industry , say : the university staff and student be extremely sad to hear of the untimely death of katie jenkin .
she be a bright , much - like and promising student and we thought be with she family .
as a close community we will come together to support we colleague and student at this difficult time . '' .
a 35-year-old new bedford man be await a double murder arraignment after police arrest he on charge he kill he mother and ex-girlfriend .
police have identify the victim as 61-year-old katherine gome , mother of the suspect , and 48-year-old robyn mende .
gary gome be arrest late tuesday night at 2088 philip street .
the d.a. 's office say gome be barricade inside with a third person .
he have be charge with two count of murder , and one count of kidnapping .
gome be schedule to be arraign in new bedford district court wednesday .
the body of the two woman be discover on the second floor at 24 independent street tuesday afternoon , after someone of the first floor smell natural gas .
a eyewitness say the gas stove have be turn on .
provisional trial date set for millom double murder accuse .
last update at 11 : 24 , tuesday , 18 june 2013 .
a provisional trial date have be set in the case of a son accuse of kill he mother , sister and pet dog in millom .
a preliminary hearing for john jenkin , 23 , charge with the murder of he mother alice mcmeekin , 58 , and sister katie jenkin , 20 , be hear in preston crown court this morning .
jenkin be due to appear via videolink from hmp preston , but do not do so as he be consider a risk to he own safety and that of other people , accord to crown prosecutor susan carter .
the case be hear in he absence , and a provisional trial date be set for october 28 with a duration of three day .
the body of ms mcmeekin and miss jenkin , be find in they house in newton street , millom , on saturday about 8 . 40am .
a earlier hearing at furness magistrate court , in barrow , hear they have severe head injury .
the family border collie , name fenn , be also find beat to death in the backyard of the house .
jenkin be arrest at millom pier around 9 . 35am .
he face one charge of cause unnecessary suffer to a animal in relation to the dog death .
no application for bail be make at yesterday hearing and no plea be enter .
a plea and case management hearing will be hold on september 6 .
judge anthony russell qc ask for psychiatric report to be complete on jenkin before the next hearing .
at the earlier hearing on monday he be deem too much of a risk to appear in the dock at furness magistrate court .
jenkin be bring to the magistrate court building by a secure van on monday , but do not appear in the dock and no plea be enter .
miss rachel bate , court clerk , say : he be at risk of cause harm to himself and cause harm to other as well .
'' -lrb- custody -rrb- be have difficulty restrain he and they not move he from the cell .
there be extreme difficulty and for the safety of everybody , include the defendant , the best approach be -lrb- to hold the hearing -rrb- in the defendant absence . '' .
the court hear police be call after hear a argument at the family home at 8 . 39am on saturday .
seven of jenkin friend attend court as a show of support .
jenkin have be live in south wale with he mum for the past three year and they have move back to millom around six week ago .
the death of two woman find in a new bedford home on tuesday have be rule homicide .
gary gome , 35 , of new bedford plead not guilty to two count of murder and one count of kidnapping .
he be order hold without bail and send to bridgewater state hospital for evaluation .
gome be find barricade in a room on philip street .
the victim have be identify as gome ' mother , katherine , 61 , and he former girlfriend , robyn mende , 48 .
a odor of natural gas lead to the discovery of the body in a apartment at 24 independent street .
a landlord send he adult son to a upstairs unit of the multi-family house at about noon on tuesday .
the man discover the body and call 911 .
man charge with murder mother and sister in cumbria .
monday 10 jun 2013 10 : 45 be .
a 23 - year - old man have be charge with the murder of he mother and sister .
john jenkin be due in court over the murder of alice mcmeekin , 58 , and kathryn jenkin , 20 .
both woman be find dead at they home in newton street , millom , cumbria , on saturday morning , with mr jenkin arrest shortly afterwards .
detective say ms mcmeekin and she daughter be find with head injury .
although formal identification have not yet take place , cumbria police announce the identity of the victim and mr jenkin , who have also be charge with animal cruelty after the family dog be find dead at the house .
he be due before furness district magistrate court today .
a arraignment have be schedule for wednesday morning for a new bedford , massachusett man accuse of murder two woman .
gary gome , 35 , will face murder and kidnapping charge after police find the body of two woman -- 68 and 48-years-old -- inside a independent street apartment .
neighbor have complain about a possible natural gas leak , which lead they to the scene .
when police arrest gome on tuesday night , he be barricade inside the apartment with a unidentified person .
new bedford police say they will release more detail about the investigation on wednesday afternoon .
the identity of the victim have not yet be release .
man hold after sis and mum murder .
publish : 09th june 2013 .
a man be last night be quiz by cop over the double murder of he mum and sister .
unemployed john jenkin , 23 , be arrest yesterday moment after armed cop arrive follow a 999 call .
a new bedford man have be arrest in the slaying of two woman whose body be find in a apartment after the building 's landlord smell natural gas .
the bristol district attorney 's office say just after midnight tuesday that 35-year-old gary gome be arrest at another house where he be find barricade with a third person .
gome face arraignment in new bedford district court on wednesday morning on two murder charge and one kidnapping charge .
the name of the woman kill , who be 61 and 48 year old , have not be release .
police lt. jeffrey silva say the landlord 's son find the body after enter the second-floor apartment on tuesday afternoon to investigate the odor .
district attorney sam sutter be expect to discuss the case at a news conference already plan wednesday afternoon to discuss development in a 2003 murder case .
brother double - murder charge .
john jenkin , 23 and from cumbria , have be charge with the murder of he mother and sister .
kathryn jenkin , 20 and from aberdare , and she mother alice mcmeekin , 58 , be find on saturday .
brother charge after aberdare woman find dead .
the brother of a woman from aberdare find dead in cumbria on saturday have be charge with she murder .
23 - year - old john jenkin , of millom , have be charge with the murder of he 58 - year - old mother , alice mcmeekin , and sister , kathryn jenkin , 20 , who be from aberdare .
on saturday 8 june 2013 , at 8 : 39am police be call to a property in newton street where mr mcmeekin and miss jenkin be tragically find dead with head injury .
the family dog be also find dead .
john jenkin be arrest on suspicion of murder shortly afterwards .
he will appear at furness district magistrate court this morning .
john jenkin be relate to the victim , he be the son of alice mcmeekin and the brother of kathryn jenkin .
- cumbria police .
trial date set for man accuse of double murder in millom .
post : june 12 , 2013 .
a trial date be set for a millom man accuse of murder he mother and sister .
john jenkin be due to appear via video link at preston crown court today but do because he currently consider too much of a danger to himself and other .
the case continue in he absence and a three day trial hearing be pencil in for october - the 23 - year old due to enter he plea in september .
the body of alice mcmeekin and katie jenkin be find at they newton street home in millom on saturday morning .
they suffer severe head injury .
john jenkin also face a animal cruelty charge after the family dog be also find beat to death .
andrew lopez confess to murder of zurana horton in brooklyn shooting .
first post : 10 / 25 / 11 06 : 44 pm et update : 12 / 25 / 11 05 : 12 be et .
a 18 - year old male confess to the gang related murder of a brooklyn mother who try to protect a group of school child from harm by shield they .
the suspect , andrew lopez , be among three teens arrest on tuesday for the shooting that take place last friday outside a brownsville school that claim the life of 34 - year old zurana horton .
horton die instantly from a shot in the face and chest when she attempt to protect student from gunfire .
horton be the mother of 12 child .
lopez be reportedly aim for a 11 - year old girl whom he be in a dispute with over a cell - phone .
the 11 - year old girl survive a injury on she arm and graze wound on she face .
lopez and he brother kristian , who be also arrest , be believe to be member of a gang call 8 block .
police commissioner ray kelly comment on lopez in a briefing .
be certainly please with the fact that the investigation have identify mr . lopez and he make statement and apparently make a full confession .
browsnville be among the most crime - ridden neighborhood in the city .
since the shocking shooting , community member , include rev . al sharpton who meet with horton family , have call for a end to gun violence .
teen arrest in shooting of hero brooklyn mom .
post oct 26 , 2011 8 : 57 be cdt .
a 18 - year - old gang member have confess to kill a pregnant mom , who die on friday as she shield a group of child from bullet , but insist he do not mean to shoot the lady , '' source tell the new york daily news .
in addition to zurana horton - who be a mother of 12 - another mom and a 11 - year - old girl be wound by rooftop sniper andrew lopez , who tell police he dozen round be intend for member of a rival gang .
lopez have be charge with murder ; he two half - brother , 17 and 22 , be also arrest .
the mother of a 10-year-old girl kill by a stray bullet on a albany street last year say she hear a loud sound before she daughter cry out '' mommy , mommy , i have be hit , '' and then stumble down the step of they apartment .
shondell mcallister on tuesday recall scream '' somebody help I , my daughter 's be shoot . '' .
mcallister be the first witness call in the trial of 16-year-old jermayne timmon , who be accuse of firing the deadly shot from a intersection down the street .
mcallister describe to juror in albany county court the hectic scene on may 29 as she lay she daughter , kathina thomas , on the sidewalk while she bleed from a gunshot wound in she back .
after run to find help , mcallister push she way back to kathina through emergency worker , only to be tell she youngest daughter be already dead .
prosecutor david rossus say timmon be charge with intentional murder because he intend to kill someone , although kathina be not the target .
in open statement tuesday , public defender peter lynch say then 15-year-old timmon be at the scene of the shooting and have a gun , but be not the one who fire the fatal shot .
lynch say he client have a caliber revolver , while autopsy result conclude that kathina be kill by a caliber bullet .
timmon , who be arrest 12 day after the shooting , face a maximum sentence of 15 year to life in prison if convict .
he be charge with two count of second-degree murder , one count each of first and second-degree manslaughter , and criminal possession of a weapon .
accord to authority , the teenager tell police he be with a group of people down the street from kathina 's home when they run into a rival group and timmon ' fire a shot at they .
the bullet miss its intended target and travel about a block before hit kathina .
timmon tell police he fire when he think he see someone in the other group reach for a gun .
he say the gun he use be keep hide under a shed and use by '' everyone in the neighborhood , '' and say he and he friend then ride away on the bike and he put the gun back .
no gun have be recover .
prosecutor be bring the case against timmon without a murder weapon , and rossi note tuesday that the gun be not available because the defendant have get rid of it .
witness for the prosecution say a shell case find at the intersection where the fatal shot be fire match the bullet remove from kathina 's body .
footage of brooklyn mother fatal shooting release during trial .
apr 12 , 2013 .
video of brooklyn mother of 13 zurana horton shot and kill in a gang shooting be reveal thursday , accord to the n . y . daily news .
the footage show 34 - year - old horton -lrb- picture -rrb- pick up she daughter from school on october 21 , 2011 , in brooklyn brownsville section .
around 2 : 18 p . m . , horton and two other mom be see wait at a intersection as a yellow bus pull up to the curb .
the shooting then break out , with horton push a child out of the way to take a bullet .
she then grip she chest and collapse to the ground .
prosecutor show the tragic footage at the trial of the two youth charge with murder horton .
twenty - year - old andrew lopez have be accuse of carelessly firing at rival gang member from a rooftop .
half - brother jonathan carrasquillo be suspect of have direct lopez to kill they enemy .
both be charge with murder , with lopez standing accuse of let off 13 shot in horton death .
one of the two mother with horton that day testify at the trial .
i see she fall back ... ... ...
i see blood come from she , '' say unique armstead , who be see in the video cover she son with she body as the shooting begin .
armstead sustain a gunshot wound to she left arm .
armstead say she hear someone say , he have a gun , '' prompt she to take she son inside a nearby corner bodega for safety .
when the coast seem clear , they reportedly go back out , which be when the shot begin .
i think it be a brick but it be a bullet , '' armstead say .
i tell my son , i think be shot . '' .
the trial be schedule to resume monday , with testimony from a man who claim lopez brother threaten to kill he ; he be reportedly scare to take the stand .
the man be petrified , '' judge vincent delgiudice say .
the man be a emotional wreck . '' .
testimony in the murder trial of a albany teen accuse in the shooting death of young kathina thomas continue for the second day on wednesday .
the trial against 16 year-old jerymayne timmon start a bit late after one juror be dismiss because of a family medical emergency .
another delay in the trial be a altercation inside the courtroom .
the albany county sheriff 's department arrest one gentleman who refuse to leave the courtroom after be ask to .
the man claim someone have push and shove he inside .
once the trial resume , timmon ' 16 year-old best friend take the stand and talk about the community gun describe in a police statement .
he say the caliber gun be nickname '' shaq '' reference the shaquille o'neal 's jersey number .
while on the stand he tell juror that timmon have ask he to tell police they be together until about 9 p.m. on the night of the shooting .
the teen do tell police that originally , and later confess that he have only be play basketball with he until about 5 : 00 on the night of may 29th .
juror also hear testimony from a state police ballistic expert , the emergency room doctor who treat kathina , and the medical examiner who perform the autopsy .
video of brooklyn woman fatal shooting be play at trial of two man charge in rooftop gunplay .
april 12 , 2013 | 4 : 00am .
rapt juror yesterday watch surveillance video of the chilling moment that a brooklyn mom be fatally strike by stray gunfire and slowly fall over into a pool of she own blood .
the disturbing evidence be make public at the trial of the two man accuse of kill zurana horton from a brownsville rooftop in 2011 .
horton , 34 , be walk with one of she 12 child when andrew lopez , 20 , fire from the rooftop on the order of he brother jonathan carrasquillo , 24 , prosecutor charge .
also shoot be a woman name unique armstead , who be walk near horton , and a 11 - year - old girl who be pass by .
yesterday , armstead tell juror at the brooklyn supreme court trial about the moment she be strike in the shooting , which be allegedly spark by a gangland territorial beef .
at the time , i think it be a brick , but it be a bullet , '' testify armstead , who be walk with she son and who can be see in the video stumble against a building after she be shoot .
when prosecutor seth goldman ask whether she shield she son with she body , armstead quietly answer , yes . '' .
when I and my son be on the floor , i notice mr . horton fall down .
i honestly think she be shoot in the head .
there be blood . '' .
armstead also testify that she hear a group of young man argue about a gun shortly before the shooting , which match up with prosecutor claim that carrasquillo order lopez to the roof with the gun after a dispute between they 8 block gang and the rival young gun crew .
the talk of gun have make armstead nervous , especially since she be with she young son .
i speed - walk to my son , and i hold he .
i be scare .
i be try to get out of harm way , '' she testify .
armstead say she seek safety for herself and she son in a store , but when activity on the street seem to have settle , she walk back outside - where a bullet go straight through she arm and she see horton kill .
brooklyn supreme court judge vincent del giudice briefly seal the courtroom at the request of prosecutor because they next witness have be threaten with death by the alleged shooter brother .
the fearful witness have enter the courtroom with hood over he head , del giudice say when the courtroom be reopen .
the man be a emotional wreck , '' the judge say before postpone the man testimony until monday .
a key witness against teenage murder suspect jermayne timmon identify he tuesday as the gunman who kill 10-year-old kathina thoma in may , then twice admit he lie in he testimony .
elijah coleman , 21 , tell juror in albany county court he and two acquaintance go to west hill on may 29 to '' put in some work '' and '' start trouble . '' .
a member of the trio be shoot in the foot by rival on a earlier occasion , he say .
they ride bike to first and judson street , he testify , and timmon , now 16 , be arm with a .45 - caliber handgun he have pick up under a trash can at the ida yarbrough apartment in albany .
after a face-off with some rival who '' want to fight , '' he testify , timmon pull the trigger .
'' jermayne fire the shot , '' he say .
kathina , a guyana native in albany less than 16 month , be slay in front of she first street home , near the corner of north lake avenue .
while not disavow timmon be the shooter , coleman then testify that he third friend , whose shooting they be avenge , actually have shoot himself in the foot earlier .
upon cross-examination , coleman then give a second contradiction , say he have see - and never have see - the .45 - caliber gun timmon allegedly be carry .
'' so which be it ? '' deputy public defender peter lynch ask coleman , who in turn say he have see the gun before .
he admit he be lie .
when ask about the friend be shoot in the foot , he then answer , '' i do not know . '' .
at one point , lynch ask coleman , '' you just lie to this jury when you tell they that , correct ? '' .
'' yes , '' he respond .
during one of the exchange , assistant district attorney david rossi ask coleman , '' be you gon na switch it every time you be ask the question ? '' .
coleman also say that he give false statement before the case go to trial .
he testify tuesday that he come forward to clear he name in early june , say he do not shoot the young girl .
meanwhile , coleman testify that he believe the defendant 's name be '' jermayne taylor , '' yet do identify he in court .
when ask by the prosecution to recall what he be ask before come to court , he respond he say it be to tell the truth .
rossi lay out the prosecution 's case earlier tuesday in a packed courtroom before judge stephen herrick .
he say timmon and the two acquaintance ride bike to a area of west hill know as '' little miamus , '' the reason be , '' it be hot - lot of action in that area .
the defendant know that . '' .
rossi say timmon and he two sidekick be engage in a staredown with youth at the corner .
he say timmon aim and miss he target , instead strike the 10-year-old girl less than two seconds later .
'' as that little girl lay bleed to death on the sidewalk , this defendant pedal off and get rid of the evidence , '' rossus say .
the gun have not be recover .
among prosecutor ' evidence not yet reveal in court be a alleged statement and apology note timmon give police .
lynch do not deny he client be at first and judson with a loaded handgun when kathina die - or that he fire the weapon .
'' as that little girl lay bleed to death on the sidewalk , this defendant pedal off and get rid of the evidence , '' rossus say .
the gun have not be recover .
among prosecutor ' evidence not yet reveal in court be a alleged statement and apology note timmon give police .
lynch do not deny he client be at first and judson with a loaded handgun when kathina die - or that he fire the weapon .
he say it be a .32 - caliber revolver , not a .45 - caliber handgun like the one that kill the girl .
'' because he be there , because he do fire a gun , he be it , '' lynch say .
'' he be the patsy . '' .
the prosecution 's first witness be kathina 's mother , shondell mcallister , who fight back emotion to recall the night she child die .
she find herself in a crowd that surround kathina outside they home .
mcallister say she have to force she way through the people to speak with authority as they , too , flood first street .
'' i say , i be she mother ... .
that be my baby , ' '' she say .
a official look at she and say : '' i be very sorry .
she be dead . '' .
to which she reply .
'' i already know she be dead . '' .
mcallister explain how she and she four child move to albany from guyana in january 2007 and to first street in september of that year .
she recall she daughter be on the front step with , among other , a 1-year-old baby .
after kathina be shoot , she exclaim , '' ' mommy , mommy , i get hit .
somebody hit I in my back . '' ' .
'' i say , oh , my god , somebody help I .
my daughter have be shoot . '' ' .
the mother fight tear later tuesday when image of she daughter post-shooting medical treatment be show in court .
several member of the victim 's family and that of timmon be in court to watch the proceedings .
timmon face up to 15 year to life if convict of second-degree murder .
testimony continue today .
jury show horrific moment innocent mother be shoot dead shield she child when she catch up in gang attack as she pick up daughter from school .
zurana horton , 34 , a mother of 12 , be fatally shoot in 2011 while pick up she daughter , 11 , from school .
a second mother who testify be shoot in she arm as well as a 11 - year - old girl .
testimony by a second witness have be delay after allegedly threaten with death by the brother of the accuse gunman .
update : 19 : 14 gmt , 12 april 2013 .
juror on thursday watch video capture the horrific moment a mother be gun down in broad daylight while pick up she 11 - year - old daughter outside a new york city school .
behind she another mother be see shot in she arm before stagger against a wall while try to hide she own son from the alleged gang member stray gunfire from a nearby rooftop .
this frightening surveillance video be present at the brooklyn supreme court on thursday during the trial of two man accuse in kill zurana horton , 34 , a mother of 12 , in 2011 and wound two other , include a 11 - year - old girl .
prosecutor say andrew lopez , 20 , a alleged 8 block gang member fire the shot mean for rival gang member from the howard project while he brother jonathan carrasquillo , 24 , give the order .
when I and my son be on the floor , i notice mr horton fall down .
i honestly think she be shoot in the head .
there be blood , ' say unique armstead , who be shoot along with a 11 - year - old girl nearby accord to the new york post .
mr armstead say that just before the shot be fire she pass a group of young man argue on the street about a gun .
she testimony match prosecutor claim .
feel uneasy , she say i speed - walk to my son , and i hold he .
i be scare .
i be try to get out of harm way . ' .
she take she son into a nearby store to wait it out .
when the fight appear to die down , she say she slip back onto the street with she son by she side when a stray bullet shot straight into she arm .
she next see horton fall down dead .
mr horton be see sprawl out on the sidewalk beside a pool of blood on the surveillance video .
witness be see cower in fear around she .
at the time , i think it be a brick , but it be a bullet , ' mr armstead say of she injury .
lopez , who be 18 at the time of the shooting , confess to be the rooftop sniper accord to initial report by the new york daily news .
the gunman say the shooting near public school 298 in brownsville have stem from a turf war between two brooklyn gang .
lopez tell police that he do not mean to shoot the lady , ' the source say .
a second witness have expect to testify in the shooting on thursday as well but after threaten with death by the brother of the alleged gunman , they testimony have be delay until monday .
the man be a emotional wreck , ' brooklyn supreme court judge vincent del giudice say , accord to the post .
lopez have be link to a brooklyn gang know as 8 block , ' who police say be engage in a turf battle with the neighbor young gun gang .
nypd commissioner raymond kelly say : be certainly please with the fact that the investigation have identify mr . lopez and he make statement and apparently make a full confession , ' the daily news report .
lopez tell police he be aim for rival gang member when a stray bullet hit the mother of 13 who be collect she child from school .
horton be plan to marry she boyfriend on valentine day in 2012 .
also arrest be lopez half - brother , 17 - year - old kristian , and carrasquillo .
all three live in a fifth - floor apartment inside 1800 pitkin ave . , the same building from where the gunman open fire , police say .
that apartment building be say to be where 8 block get they name , the post report in 2011 .
carrasquillo be charge with murder , and kristian lopez be arrest for possession of a baseball bat , police say .
andrew lopez have a previous arrest for walk down pitkin ave . brandish a loaded gun three year ago , source tell the daily news .
the shooting frenzy in which at least 12 shot be fire begin just 13 minute after school finish .
cheanne mcknight , 11 , be recover from a graze wound to she cheek , while a 31 - year - old brooklyn mom be shoot in the arm .
police recover 12 9 - mm shell casing on the roof of the pitkin avenue apartment and the sidewalk .
emotional testimony and at time lie be what juror hear tuesday in the trial of jermayne timmon , the teen accuse of shooting and kill 10-year-old kathina thoma last may in albany .
prosecutor david rossi begin open statement , talk about what allegedly lead jermayne timmon to the west hill neighborhood on may 29 and what lead he to allegedly fire the bullet that strike kathina thomas seconds after it be fire from more than a block away .
rossi tell the 7 woman , 5 man jury , '' as that little girl lay bleed on the sidewalk , the defendant , jermayne timmon , pedal he bike away and get rid of the evidence . '' .
he also tell the panel that it will not be one witness to make the case , but all of they -- a line whose meaning would soon come into play .
public defender peter lynch admit that timmon have a gun but then drop a bombshell , say that while this case have many fact not in dispute , ultimately it be undisputed that kathina thomas die from a gunshot wound from a .45 caliber ... but jermayne timmon have a .32 .
peter lynch/timmons ' attorney : '' i be not go to be offer any out-of-court comment on the testimony as we be proceed . '' .
kathina thoma ' mother shondell mcallister be the first prosecution witness , emotionally describe the shooting scene , and she daughter scream , '' mommy , mommy , i get hit .
something hit I in my back '' , then say '' save I , save I mommy '' , while she mother tell she to stop talk .
the afternoon session begin with two of the witness district attorney david soare ' office have ask the media not to identify by name .
one be with timmon that night and describe he retrieve the so-called community gun and see he shoot it , but also admit that he lie three time to police and also admit to lie several time in he testimony .
the district attorney say this do not hurt they case .
david soares/albany county district attorney : '' the issue that be in play in the courtroom right now will bear themselves out .
there be a jury that be choose to listen to the evidence that be present and they will evaluate the testimony of everyone who take the stand and testify . '' .
the jury also hear the 911 call of the shooting , and hear from police officer who respond to the call , as well as one of the paramedic who treat kathina .
gangbanger who allegedly kill mom of 12 in crossfire begin trial .
zurana horton be kill when the accuse thug andrew lopez , 20 and jonathan carrasquillo , 24 , be spray bullet from a rooftop in brownsville , brooklyn and one richochet off a wall .
thursday , april 11 , 2013 , 12 : 12 be .
two accuse gangbanger go on trial wednesday for tragically kill a mother of 12 as they be spray bullet from a brooklyn rooftop .
zurana horton become a victim of the senseless gang violence that plague brooklyn , '' prosecutor seth goldman say at the start of the murder trial of half - brother andrew lopez , 20 , and jonathan carrasquillo , 24 .
the 34 - year - old mother be strike in the chest from a bullet that ricochet off a fence in she brownsville neighborhood in oct . 2011 , authority say .
lopez be allegedly target member of the young goon gang , who have a seven - year beef with the 8 block crew he belong to .
last may , a stray bullet kill 10-year-old kathina thoma as she play on the front step of she home on albany 's first street .
she death spark outrage , and even prompt the community to come together to get gun off albany street .
now the case be back in the spotlight as the 16-year-old accuse of firing the fatal shot , jermayne timmon , go to trial .
more than 100 potential juror walk into the albany county courthouse monday .
inside , man and woman from all walk of life be slowly eliminate , answer question such as '' have you hear , see or read anything about the death of thoma ? '' .
such a query would be difficult thing to say '' no '' to , give all the media attention that the 10-year-old 's death and timmon ' subsequent arrest bring .
by 5:00 monday , selection be wind down for the day as five be already pick for the jury .
timmon remain at the courthouse along with defense attorney peter lynch and albany county district attorney dave rossi .
'' the evidence in this case be gon na ' show factually that jermayne be not the person who cause -lsb- thoma ' -rsb- death , '' lynch tell local media monday .
however , lynch have a tough job ahead of he in prove that he client do not pull the trigger and , in the end , kill thoma .
this , when police have release a alleged confession from timmon , and a letter of apology that he be say to have write to the girl 's mother that read , '' i be so sorry that the gun i shot be the gun that could have takeing -lrb- sic . -rrb- you baby girl away from you , '' .
king provide a explanation , say , '' the so-called apology note be pose more in the question of if -lsb- timmon -rsb- , in some way , could have be responsible , he would have be apologetic for it , '' .
none of thoma ' family member be present in the courthouse monday , only timmon ' friend and relative .
also absent be those who be expect to be call on as witness .
in a unprecedented move , albany county assistant district attorney dave rossi ask the media to keep the identity of certain witness quiet .
'' if we start see name in the paper or on the news on day one , i think it be gon na ' make it more difficult for we to have witness in the seat on day two , three and four , '' he say .
one of the witness that can be talk about be jermayne timmon ' own mother , who be expect to take the stand .
jury selection will likely go on until sometime tuesday .
it be more than seven month ago when that errant bullet kill kathina thomas .
the 10-year-old be shoot on the night of may 29th while she be play outside she first street home .
less than two week later , jermayne timmon be arrest and charge with the shooting .
it be discover shortly after the arrest that timmon have write a apology letter to the mother of kathina thomas , say the bullet be not mean to hit the girl .
in response to the fallout over thoma ' death , and further gun violence in albany , district attorney david soare announce a gun buyback program in mid-june , offer up gift card to anyone who bring in a gun .
gang member guilty in slay of brooklyn mom of 12 .
andrew lopez , 20 be find guilty in murder of zurana horton .
horton be strike by a stray bullet as lopez target rival gang member .
he face up to 75 year to life in prison .
wednesday , april 24 , 2013 , 10 : 34 be .
a gang member be convict tuesday for claim the life of a mother of 12 when he spray 13 bullet from a brooklyn rooftop in broad daylight .
andrew lopez , 20 , be find guilty of slaying zurana horton , 34 , and wound unique armstead , 32 , and cheanne mcknight , 11 , in october 2011 as he target rival gang member .
he face up to 75 year to life in prison when he sentence may 7 .
the gruesome death on a busy brownsville street be capture in a chill surveillance tape play at trial .
it take the panel just over two hour to convict lopez , who confess after the shooting .
guilty verdict for murderer of brooklyn mother of 12 .
a brooklyn jury have return a guilty verdict for andrew lopez for the murder of zurana horton and the injury of two other .
convict of second - degree murder and assault in the first degree , lopez , 20 , face a potential sentence of life in prison when he be sentence by justice vincent del giudice .
in october 2011 , lopez and he co - defendant and half - brother jonathan carrasquillo , 24 , be arrest in connection with a shooting in brownsville howard housing project .
surveillance footage , provide as evidence to the juror , capture the horrific event as it unfold .
the video show horton , a mother of 12 , on the street near a school immediately prior to the shooting .
it show she attempt to shield herself from the spray of bullet , and ultimately she fatally wound body on the sidewalk .
zurana horton become a victim of the senseless gang violence that plague brooklyn , '' prosecutor seth goldman say during the murder trial of lopez and carrasquillo .
it be say throughout the investigation and trial that lopez and carrasquillo be target member of a rival gang when horton and the two other victim kill and injure in the crossfire .
carrasquillo allegedly order lopez to shoot .
the jury be still deliberate on carrasquillo verdict .
lopez sentence date be may 7 .
april 24 , 2013 - 4 : 45pm .
last moment of brooklyn mother of 12 kill in crossfire catch on tape .
zurana horton , 34 , be kill on oct . 21 , 2011 while walk near a intersection in brownsville after 2 p . m .
andrew lopez , 20 , be the accuse gunman who spray gunfire from a rooftop .
thursday , april 11 , 2013 , 9 : 53 pm .
a shocking video release for the first time thursday capture the moment a brooklyn mother of 12 be kill in a gang shootout as she pick she daughter up from school .
the dramatic footage be show at the trial of two local tough charge with kill zurana horton , 34 , on oct . 21 , 2011 .
at 2 : 18 p . m . , horton and two other mom be see approach a brownsville intersection as a yellow school bus roll up .
a commotion break out as the three mother and two child press up against a storefront for safety .
horton push a child out of the way , grip she chest , then collapse to the ground next to a pool of she own blood .
i see she fall back ... ... ...
i see blood come from she , '' testify unique armstead , the mother in the video wear a white jacket , see envelop herself around she son as they dive to the ground just foot from where horton be kill .
armstead be shoot in the left arm .
andrew lopez , 20 , be accuse of firing indiscriminately at rival gang member from a nearby rooftop .
he half - brother , jonathan carrasquillo , 24 , who allegedly instruct lopez to take care of they enemy , be also on trial for murder .
armstead , 32 , testify that after she overhear someone say he have a gun , '' she take refuge inside a corner bodega with she son , who be celebrate he 11th birthday that day .
they step out less than a minute later when it look like the threat be over , she say , but then shot start to ring out .
i think it be a brick but it be a bullet , '' armstead testify .
i tell my son , i think be shot . ' '' .
a 11 - year - old girl , cheanne mcknight , be graze in the cheek .
lopez be accuse of spray 13 shot on a friday afternoon , just as school be be let out .
horton senseless death shake the city and highlight the scourge of gun violence that plague its hardscrabble neighborhood .
the two jury hear the case - one for each defendant - show little emotion as the disturbing tape be play in court .
horton mother , denise peace , say she be now care for five of she daughter orphan kid while they father be look after seven other .
of the alleged gunman , she say , he a menace to society . '' .
the trial will resume monday with testimony from a man who purportedly tell prosecutor he have be threaten with death by lopez brother .
after the witness , who cover he face with a hoodie , be hear in a empty courtroom , the judge rule he can testify in open court .
but justice vincent delgiudice make clear the witness be reluctant to take the stand .
the man be petrified , '' he say .
the man be a emotional wreck . '' .
prosecutor release new video in shooting trial of brownsville mother of 12 , zurana horton .
publish : april 16 , 2013 9 : 09 be .
prosecutor have release new video in the trial of two man accuse of kill a brownsville mother of 12 in oct . 2011 .
the video show zurana horton fall to the ground surround by kid in the moment after gunfire erupt outside she child school .
witness say horton die try to shield several student .
authority have charge andrew lopez and jonathan carrasquillo with she murder .
jury find andrew lopez guilty in murder of zurana horton .
publish : april 23 , 2013 9 : 39 be .
a jury have hand down a guilty verdict for one of the two man accuse of murder a brownsville mother of 12 .
andrew lopez be find guilty of second - degree murder and two count of first - degree assault in the death of zurana horton .
jury deliberation be still underway for the second suspect , jonathan carrasquillo .
horton be shoot and kill in october 2011 when gunfire erupt outside ... ... ...
i confirm yesterday that obama have offer the job and that gupta have all but officially accept .
get it up on the web site at 2:36 p.m. , mere moment after file the story .
cyberspeed come in handy sometimes .
cnn , where i host a weekly program , do not report it until 3:59 , but the blog go crazy -- lead story on huffpost , top of drudge 's page , then the nyt and other .
gupta would not comment to I -- while not deny the story -- but confirm on he twitter feed that he '' have be approach by the obama administration about the u.s. surgeon general 's post . '' .
everyone 's digital these day .
it be interesting that obama be so intent on recruit he that he meet with the '' house call '' host for 21/2 21/2 hour on nov. 25 .
he seem to want a administration of star in the hillary mode .
gupta do not have a panetta problem -- he operate inside people 's head , after all -- and have always be draw to health policy , since a stint in the clinton white house .
obama nominate new surgeon general : macarthur genius grant fellow regina benjamin .
jul 13 , 2009 01 : 40 pm .
as the country politico have they sight set on the u . s . supreme court confirmation hearing for sonia sotomayor today , president barack obama nominate regina benjamin , 52 , as the country new surgeon general , the lead spokesperson on issue of public health , '' obama say .
benjamin , a rural family doctor in alabama , be a 2008 macarthur foundation fellow , and in 1995 she be elect to the american medical association board of trustee , make she both the first black woman on the board and the first ama trustee to be elect before the age of 40 .
in 1990 she found the bayou la batre rural health clinic , which care for a largely uninsured working - class community that be hit by both hurricane katrina and george .
in addition to provide for she ill patient - whether or not they can foot the bill - she be a relentless promoter of prevention and wellness program , '' obama say about benjamin , who have have many relative have die of preventable disease .
in she acceptance speech , benjamin thank two of she mentor : former surgeon general david satcher and former secretary of health and human service , loui sullivan .
if confirm by the senate , she will replace rear admiral steven k . galson , who have be act surgeon general since october 2007 .
the surgeon general communicate the best science , evidence , and datum to the american people for they to make healthy choice , '' accord to the office of the surgeon general web site .
cnn correspondent sanjay gupta have be the front - runner for the spot earlier this year until he pull himself out of consideration .
dr. sanjay gupta , a neurosurgeon and chief medical correspondent for cnn , have be offer the post of surgeon general by president-elect barack obama , accord to source .
gupta , 39 , have reportedly accept the job , accord to the washington post , and be already work out the detail of move he family from atlanta to washington .
regina benjamin u . s . surgeon general nominee .
july 13 , 2009 .
president barack obama hold a press conference , july 13 , 2009 to announce he nominee for u . s . surgeon general , regina benjamin .
here be the transcript of the announcement .
president barack obama : before i introduce america next surgeon general , would like to say a few word about we ongoing effort to reform the health care system that she will help oversee .
we be now closer to the goal of health care reform than we have ever be .
over the last several week , key committee in the house and the senate have make important and unprecedented progress on a plan that will lower cost , provide better care for patient and curb the worst practice of the insurance company .
it a plan that will not add to we deficit over the next decade .
let I repeat that : it be a plan that will not add to we deficit over the next decade and eventually will help lower we deficit by slow the skyrocket cost of medicare and medicaid .
now , even though we be close , have get no illusion that it go to be easy to get over the finish line .
there be go to be more debate and more disagreement before all be say and do .
but health care reform must be do .
i know there be those who believe we should wait to solve this problem or take a more incremental approach or simply do nothing .
but this be the kind of criticism we hear when the country try to pass medicare , a program that be now provide quality care to generation of american senior .
it the kind of criticism we hear when we try to pass the child health insurance program , which have provide quality care and coverage to million of kid .
it the same washington thinking that have ignore big challenge and put off tough decision for decade .
and it be precisely that kind of small thinking that have lead we into the current predicament .
so , make no mistake : the status quo on health care be no longer a option for the united state of america .
if we step back from this challenge right now , we will leave we child a legacy of debt , a future of crush cost that bankrupt we family , we business and , because we will have do nothing to bring down the cost of medicare and medicaid , will crush we government .
premium will continue to skyrocket , place what amount to another tax on american family struggle to pay bill .
the insurance company and special interest that have kill reform in the past will only continue to benefit even more , and they continue to deny coverage to american with pre - exist medical condition .
people will continue to lose health insurance just because they lose they job or they change job .
this be a future that we can afford .
this country not afford to have health care premium rise three time faster than people wages as they do over the last decade .
we not afford 14 , 000 american lose they health care every single day .
we not afford a future where we government will eventually spend more on medicare and medicaid than what we spend on everything else .
during the campaign i promise health care reform that would control cost , expand coverage and ensure choice , and i promise that american make 250 , 000 a year or less would not pay more in tax .
these be promise that be keep as reform move forward .
this be no longer a problem we can wait to fix .
this be about who we be as a country .
health care reform be about every family health , but it also about the health of the economy .
so , i just want to put everybody on notice , because there be a lot of chatter during the week that i be go : we be go to get this do .
inaction be not a option .
and for those naysayer and cynic who think that this be not go to happen , not bet against we .
we be go to make this thing happen because the american people desperately need it .
and even those who be satisfy with they health care right now , they understand that if premium keep on double and if employer keep on shed health insurance because it unsustainable , and if you look at the trajectory of where medicare and medicaid be go , then inaction will create the biggest crisis of all .
and so i understand people be a little nervous and a little scared about make change .
you know , the muscle in this town to bring about big change be a little atrophied , but be whipping folk back into shape .
we be go to get this do .
and if there anyone who understand the urgency of meeting this challenge in a personal and powerful way , it be the woman who will become we nation next surgeon general , dr . regina benjamin .
the list of qualification that make dr . benjamin a outstanding candidate to be america lead spokesperson on issue of public health be long indeed .
she be in the second class at morehouse school of medicine and go on to earn a m . d . from the university of alabama at birmingham and a mba from tulane .
she serve as associate dean for rural health at the university of south alabama college of medicine , and in 1995 , she become the first physician under 40 and the first african - american woman to be name to the american medical association board of trustee .
in 2002 , she become president of alabama state medical association , and she have receive numerous award and recognition , include the macarthur genius award .
it very impressive .
but of all these achievement and experience , none have be more pertinent to today challenge or closer to regina heart than the rural health clinic that she have build and rebuild in bayou la batre .
do i say that right ?
barack obama have ask the cnn medical correspondent dr sanjay gupta to join he fledgling administration as the we surgeon general , accord to report .
accord to washingtonpost.com , the 39-year-old doctor be '' the obama team 's first choice '' to become america 's most senior public health official .
although gupta have not comment on the matter , the post claim that he want the job and be undergo final vetting .
cnn have confirm gupta have be approach by the president-elect 's transition team .
former ama trustee dr . benjamin nominate to be surgeon general .
post july 20 , 2009 .
president obama choice to be the nation top physician and top scientist be both hand - on practitioner with extensive leadership experience .
on july 13 , obama announce that he be nominating regina m . benjamin , md , a family physician from southern alabama , to be surgeon general .
dr . benjamin , 52 , become the first woman and first african - american president of the medical assn . of the state of alabama in 2002 .
she also complete a term in june as chair of the ama council on ethical and judicial affair and serve on the ama board of trustee from 1995 to 1998 , become the first physician under 40 to serve on the board in a non - resident role .
on july 8 , obama nominate francis s . collin , md , phd , as director of the national institutes of health .
dr . collin , 59 , lead the human genome project - - a effort to sequence and map human gene , that conclude in 2003 .
he leave he position as director of the nih national human genome research institute in 2008 after 15 year but maintain a lab at the nih bethesda , md . , campus .
both nominee must first be confirm by the senate .
ama president j . jame rohack , md , say dr . benjamin have a impressive list of accomplishment , include receive a macarthur fellowship in 2008 , commonly know as the genius grant . '' .
but award be not she main focus , he say .
dr . benjamin most important qualification for surgeon general be she deep commitment to she patient . '' .
dr . benjamin say in the white house rise garden announcement that the death of close relative from preventable disease drive she to focus on public health .
my father die with diabetes and hypertension .
my older brother , and only sibling , die at age 44 of hiv - related illness .
my mother die of lung cancer , because as a young girl , she want to smoke just like she twin brother could . '' .
dr . collin colleague say he be a natural choice to head the primary federal agency for funding and conduct medical research because of he thoughtfulness , willingness to listen and experience as a spokesman for the genome mapping effort .
he a forceful personality , '' say tom murray , phd , head of the hasting center , a independent bioethic research institute .
he want to hear from people who not agree with he . '' .
patient before profit .
if confirm , dr . benjamin would be the nation lead public health educator .
fellow physician see the role as a good fit .
besides experience with family illness , dr . benjamin say she also be influence by she medical school training under david satcher , md , phd , who later become surgeon general , and other who focus on public health issue in underserved area .
jorge alsip , md , the alabama medical society president , say dr . benjamin have see how much patient in poor and rural area appreciate she help .
that not help but affect you and make you want to do something for these people , '' say dr . alsip , a emergency physician who have know dr . benjamin for more than 15 year .
dr . alsip also say dr . benjamin be tenacious .
if regina in a fight , not ever bet against she . '' .
she rebuild she clinic in bayou la batre , ala . , twice after hurricane destroy it and be rebuild it a third time after a fire .
obama say he surgeon general pick have personally witness how the u . s . health system be break .
she see a increase number of patient who have health insurance they entire life suddenly lose it because they lose they job or because it simply become too expensive . '' .
dr . benjamin lament the difficulty some doctor face in care for patient , regardless of ability to pay .
it should be this expensive for american to get health care in this country , '' she say .
obama say dr . benjamin have forgo a salary when she clinic face financial hardship .
jeff terry , md , chair of the ama alabama delegation and a urologist , say dr . benjamin have prove herself through work in organize medicine and elsewhere .
the two co - found the young physician section of the state medical society nearly two decade ago .
since then , she have hold leadership position in physician organization and other group .
dr . benjamin be also probably more politically liberal than many physician on alabama gulf coast , dr . terry say .
maybe president obama see a little of that in she . '' .
both scientific and religious .
obama laud dr . collin experience in the july 8 announcement .
dr . collin be one of the top scientist in the world , and he groundbreaking work have change the very way we consider we health and examine disease . '' .
dr . collin laboratory discover several important gene , include those responsible for cystic fibrosis and huntington disease .
acquaintance and colleague predict that dr . collin would do a good job represent nih in front of lawmaker and other .
he be a very approachable person who do rely on jargon to communicate , say sean b . tipton , spokesman for the american society of reproductive medicine .
he have a ability to interact with the public and with policymaker and the press that i think will serve he very well as a nih director . '' .
the hasting center murray say that if dr . collin ever make a mistake , it may be that he be a bit overly enthusiastic when describe the potential for breakthrough when he be lead the human genome project .
still , i not fault the scientist who really believe in they work for be enthusiastic as they talk to congress , '' murray say .
dr . collin have garner attention by profess that he belief in god can coexist with he pursuit of science .
he write book on the topic , include the 2007 best - seller the language of god : a scientist present evidence for belief .
he be also founder and president of the biologo foundation , whose purpose be to find compatibility between the scientific and religious search for truth .
in a interview with the spiritual web site beliefnet in 2007 , dr . collin say christian who reject scientific evolutionary theory be also reject human ability to understand , a god - give skill .
but there be limit to the question science can answer , such as why we be here or what happen after death , he say .
william hurlbut , md , a consulting professor of neuroscience at stanford university and a former member of president george w . bush council on bioethic , say the idea that science and religion not coexist be ridiculous .
a person with francis background be a very wise choice for nih chief , he say .
barack obama to name dr. sanjay gupta surgeon general : onion headline or actual news ?
accord to the washington post 's howard kurtz , it be fact , and as long as the cnn doc can accustom himself to make white house money rather than cable-news money , he be expect to accept .
president-elect barack obama 's report choice for surgeon general , cnn medical correspondent sanjay gupta , could bring a dose of star power to a job that have not have that much clout in decade .
dr. sanjay gupta , a neurosurgeon and cnn 's chief medical reporter , be the lead contender to become the next surgeon general , a pick that will give the moribund office a higher profile but one that have receive a mixed reaction among public health advocate .
president-elect barack obama have ask neurosurgeon and cnn medical correspondent dr. sanjay gupta to be u.s. surgeon general , a senior democrat say on tuesday .
gupta have be '' the obama team 's first choice '' for the job , which would make the tv personality america 's top doctor , say the democrat who be familiar with effort by obama to staff he pend administration .
the washington post 's online service , washingtonpost.com , first report that gupta have be offer the job , traditionally the u.s. top spokesman on matter of public health .
cnn medical reporter and grady hospital neurosurgeon dr. sanjay gupta have be approach by the obama administration to fill the post of u.s. surgeon general , cnn official confirm tuesday .
the white house .
office of the press secretary .
for immediate release july 13 , 2009 .
president obama announce nominee for surgeon general .
today , president barack obama announce he intent to nominate regina m . benjamin as surgeon general , department of health and human service .
president obama say , health care reform be about every family health and the health of we economy .
and if there anyone who understand the urgency of meeting this challenge in a personal and powerful way , it the woman who will become we nation next surgeon general , doctor regina benjamin .
i look forward work with she in the month and year ahead . '' .
president obama announce he intent to nominate the follow individual today .
regina m . benjamin , nominee for surgeon general , department of health and human service .
regina m . benjamin , md , mba , be founder and ceo of the bayou la batre rural health clinic in bayou la batre , alabama .
she be the immediate past - chair of the federation of state medical board of the united state , and previously serve as associate dean for rural health at the university of south alabama college of medicine .
in 2002 , she become president of the medical association of the state of alabama , make she the first african american woman to be president of a state medical society in the united state .
dr . benjamin hold a bs in chemistry from xavier university , new orlean .
she be in the 2nd class at morehouse school of medicine and receive she md degree from the university of alabama , birmingham , as well as a mba from tulane university .
she complete she residency in family medicine at the medical center of central georgia .
dr . benjamin receive the nelson mandela award for health and human rights in 1998 , and be elect to the american medical association board of trustee in 1995 , make she the first physician under age 40 and the first african - american woman to be elect .
dr . benjamin be previously name by time magazine as one of the nation 50 future leader age 40 and under . '' .
she be also feature in a new york time article , angel in a white coat , as person of the week on abc world news tonight with peter jenning , and as woman of the year by cb this morning .
she receive the 2000 national caring award which be inspire by mother teresa , as well as the papal honor pro ecclesia et pontifice from pope benedict xvi .
she be also a recent recipient of the macarthur genius award .
in a rich and symbolic recognition to india 's sterling contribution to the we health care system , the we president-elect have ask dr sanjay gupta , cnn 's well-known medical correspondent and a neuro-surgeon of repute to be the country 's surgeon general .
dr . regina benjamin : nominee for surgeon general .
july 13 , 2009 12 : 49 pm edt .
the president announce he nominee for the u . s . surgeon general , dr . regina benjamin , today at the white house .
dr . benjamin have a extensive and distinguished career in medicine .
she be the founder and ceo of the bayou la batre rural health clinic in alabama , which aim to provide primary care to people of any age regardless of they financial situation .
she previously serve as chair of the federation of state medical board of the united state , and as the associate dean for rural health at the university of south alabama college of medicine .
additionally , she be choose as president of the medical association of alabama in 2002 , become the first african - american woman to be president of a state medical society .
she be also the first african - american woman and physician under 40 to be elect to the american medical association board of trustee .
she receive the nelson mandela award for health and human rights in 1998 , among other honor .
the president emphasize this experience in he remark , chronicle she dedication to provide health care for she rural community in the face of adversity .
and that why , even though she could have leave the state to make more money as a specialist or as a doctor in a wealthier community , regina benjamin return to alabama and open a small clinic in bayou la batre .
when people could pay , she do charge they .
when the clinic be make money , she do take a salary for herself .
when hurricane george destroy the clinic in 1998 , she make house call to all she patient while it be rebuild .
when hurricane katrina destroy it again and leave most of she town homeless , she mortgage she house and max out she credit card to rebuild that clinic for a second time .
she tend to those who have be wound in the storm , and when folk need medicine , she ask the pharmacist to send the bill she way .
and when regina clinic be about to open for the third time , and a fire burn it to the ground before it could serve the first patient , well , you can guess what dr . benjamin do .
with help from she community , she be rebuild it again .
one disabled patient bring she a envelope with 20 inside .
another elderly man say simply , maybe i can help .
i get a hammer . '' .
for nearly two decade , dr . regina benjamin have see in a very personal way what be break about we health care system .
she see a increase number of patient who have health insurance they entire life suddenly lose it because they lose they job or because it simply become too expensive .
she be a relentless promoter of prevention and wellness program , have treat too many costly and - - disease and complication that do have to happen .
and she witness the shortage of primary care physician in the rural and underserved area where she work .
but for all that she see and all the tremendous obstacle that she have overcome , regina benjamin also represent what best about health care in america - - doctor and nurse who give and care and sacrifice for the sake of they patient ; those american who would do anything to heal a fellow citizen .
as the president explain , through this personal experience work with the poor and uninsured , dr . benjamin understand firsthand the urgent need for health care reform .
as surgeon general , she will be the people health advocate , and will play a key role in health care reform .
in she remark , dr . benjamin explain how she see she role .
my hope , if confirm as surgeon general , be to be america doctor , america family physician .
as we work toward a solution to this health care crisis , i promise to communicate directly with the american people to help guide they through whatever change may come with health care reform .
news that barack obama may name dr. sanjay gupta of emory university and cnn as he surgeon general have cause a spasm of celebrity reporting .
regina benjamin u . s . surgeon general nomination : story and resource .
on july 13 , 2009 at 10 : 50 am , update july 29 , 2009 at 12 : 16 pm .
president barack obama announce he nomination of dr . regina benjamin , a physician who operate a clinic in bayou la batre , ala . , as the u . s . surgeon general during a announcement in the white house rise garden monday , july 13 , 2009 .
report that president-elect barack obama have approach cnn 's medical correspondent , dr. sanjay gupta , to be the next surgeon general inspire a parlor game among people who have too much free time -lrb- a k a media type -rrb- .
the doctor be -lrb- finally -rrb- in : obama to nominate regina benjamin as surgeon general .
jul 13 , 2009 11 : 23am .
president obama will name dr . regina benjamin as u . s . surgeon general in a rose garden announcement late this morning .
benjamin , a alabama family physician , run a rural health clinic in bayou la batre .
she be the first african - american woman to head a state medical society and receive a macarthur foundation genius grant last year .
she become known nationally for she determination to rebuild she clinic , destroy in hurricane katrina in 2005 .
in she profile on the national institutes of health web site , benjamin write about she call to become a doctor while in medical school at the university of alabama at birmingham .
i believe it be divine intervention - it be in medical school when i realize there be nothing else would rather do with my life than to be a doctor .
i have never see a black doctor before i go to college , so i do not have a idea that i want to be one .
i never think i that i could , but i never really think about it at all . '' .
accord to a 1997 article in ebony , benjamin say she apply to yale university school of law before she attend college .
they send I a reply politely tell I that i need my undergraduate degree first . '' .
to pay for college , she turn to the national health service corps , which give she a tuition reimbursement in exchange for commit to work in area where there be a shortage of doctor .
that agreement take she to bayou la batre where she be the only doctor for 2 , 500 people , most of whom live below the poverty line and speak no english .
benjamin be name the person of the week on abc news world news tonight in 1995 and convey the challenge of servicing poor patient .
the people be real , genuine , hardworking .
they proud people .
they make a live the best they can on shrimp boat .
they , unfortunately , be too poor to pay they medical bill at time , '' she tell abc news peter jenning .
sometimes it very frustrating .
sometimes i can do everything that the textbook teach I and school teach I and then patient not buy they medicine .
and it all for nothing . '' .
in january , it be report that president obama have ask cnn dr . sanjay gupta to be surgeon general , and that gupta have mull the offer for a while , but eventually turn it down .
benjamin will appear in the rose garden today as the president make the nomination formal .
like you , i do a scooby-doo -lrb- or be it astro ? -rrb- '' whuuuuhhh ? ? '' double-take when i spot sanjay gupta 's smile mug on a cable news channel not name cnn yesterday , be mention as a candidate -- the lead one , we must assume -- for u.s. surgeon general .
ama celebrate nomination of regina benjamin , md , surgeon general .
for immediate release .
july 13 , 2009 .
the american medical association be delighted that dr . regina benjamin , md , have be nominate to serve as we nation next u . s . surgeon general .
she many impressive accomplishment , include receive a 2008 macarthur fellowship , commonly know as the genius grant , leave no doubt as to she qualification .
dr . benjamin most important qualification for surgeon general be she deep commitment to she patient .
we be particularly gratify to see she recognize for she work care for patient in rural alabama , and for she commitment to rebuild she rural health clinic in the wake of hurricane katrina .
she be a true professional who put she patient first .
the ama be immensely proud of dr . benjamin accomplishment , and we be extremely fortunate that she have just serve a term as chair of the ama council on ethical and judicial affair .
she serve as a member of the ama board of trustee with the dual distinction of be the ama first young physician trustee , as well as the first african - american woman board member .
we look forward to see dr . benjamin serve as a advocate for all the nation patient , as we country work toward health reform that provide high quality , affordable health coverage for all . '' .
cnn 's management confirm yesterday that dr gupta have be approach by the obama team .
cnn management say : '' since first learn that dr gupta be under consideration for the surgeon-general position , cnn have make sure he on-air reporting have be on health and wellness matter and not on healthcare policy or any matter involve the new administration . '' .
president nominate regina benjamin , md to serve as surgeon general .
rural family physician feature in nlm change the face of medicine exhibition .
president obama have nominate alabama physician dr . regina benjamin to be we surgeon general .
dr . benjamin be one of the outstanding american woman physician profile in nlm 2003 - 2005 exhibition , change the face of medicine . '' .
she biography appear at : http : / / www . nlm . nih . gov / changingthefaceofmedicine / physician / biography _ 31 . html .
with support from the american library association , change the face of medicine be travel the nation through november 2010 .
you can view the itinerary at : http : / / www . nlm . nih . gov / hmd / about / exhibition / travelingexhibition / ctfom . html .
dr . benjamin , who have hold leadership position statewide and nationally , have long provide medical care on the gulf coast .
in 1990 , she found bayou la batre rural health clinic in the fishing village of bayou la batre , alabama .
she clinic be batter by hurricane george in 1998 and hurricane katrina in 2005 , but benjamin rebuild it each time and continue to offer medical care to the village 2 , 500 resident .
many of she family practice patient be uninsured , accord to the macarthur foundation , which last year award she one of its prestigious 500 , 000 genius grant .
she patient population include immigrant from vietnam , cambodia and lao , who comprise a third of bayou la batre population .
benjamin receive a bachelor degree in 1979 from xavier university of louisiana , attend morehouse school of medicine from 1980 to 1982 and receive a doctor of medicine degree from the university of alabama at birmingham in 1984 .
she complete she residency in family practice at the medical center of central georgia in 1987 and have serve as ceo of the bayou la batre rural health clinic since its founding in 1990 .
she earn a master degree in business administration in 1991 from tulane university .
dr . benjamin also serve as the associate dean for rural health at the university of south alabama college of medicine and as president of the state of alabama medical association from 2002 to 2003 .
she be the first woman , first african american woman and first person under age 40 to sit on the board of trustee of the american medical association , serve from 1995 through 1998 .
the u . s . surgeon general serve as america chief health educator by provide american the best scientific information available on how to improve they health and reduce the risk of illness and injury .
in carry out all responsibility , the surgeon general report to the assistant secretary for health , who be the principal advisor to the secretary of health and human service on public health and scientific issue .
the we surgeon general also serve on the nlm board of regent as a ex officio member .
u.s. president-elect barack obama have ask neurosurgeon sanjay gupta , cnn 's chief medical correspondent , to serve as the country 's surgeon general , cnn report tuesday .
robert wood johnson foundation trustee , regina benjamin , m . d . , m . b . a . , nominate for surgeon general of the united state .
nominee praise for she expertise , credentials , judgment and passionate commitment to health care equity and social justice .
july 13 , 2009 .
the robert wood johnson foundation congratulate former trustee , regina benjamin , m . d . , m . b . a . , on be nominate for surgeon general of the united state .
benjamin bring to the position tremendous expertise , lead academic credentials , impeccable judgment , and a passionate commitment to health care equity and social justice .
while the foundation be sorry to be lose benjamin as a trustee , we be grateful that she be continue to dedicate she knowledge and commitment to help american lead healthier life and get the care they need .
cnn reporter sanjay gupta , a neurosurgeon who be among the nation 's best-known physician , be under serious consideration to be the next surgeon general , democratic and network official say tuesday .
wednesday , july 29 , 2009 .
surgeon general nominee dr . regina benjamin .
i be immediately impress with dr . regina benjamin background when president obama nominate she for u . s . surgeon general .
she lead a impressive career , one that include decide to practice in a low - income community in the gulf coast of alabama .
the bayou la batre rural health clinic have be a staple for resident since 1987 and often do charge patient who not afford to pay .
the clinic also focus heavily on preventative illness since this hit close to home for dr . benjamin .
she lose she father to diabetic and high - blood pressure , she mother to lung cancer and she brother from a hiv - related illness .
personally and professionally , dr . benjamin have long fight for the well - be of other .
after research she background , i have a gut feeling she be a member of delta sigma theta sorority , inc . , a non - profit community service base organization .
and it be confirm several day later when the sorority national president announce dr . benjamin become a member while complete she undergraduate degree at xavier university in new orlean , la .
while i be the only one impressed with dr . benjamin background , there be also some who question she ability to perform the duty of surgeon general .
a article with the subtitle : do you have to be thin to be fit for the role of nation top doc ? '' , be publish shortly after dr . benjamin nomination .
dr . arthur caplan pen the article and defend dr . benjamin due to she tireless effort of serve those less fortunate .
i applaud he for take a stand on dr . benjamin behalf .
i not condone a unhealthy lifestyle , but be sure dr . benjamin be probably like many of we .
with hectic work schedule and family , it can be difficult to find time to lead a healthy lifestyle .
i struggle with juggle my to - do - list daily and sometimes exercise and healthy eating do make the cut .
it no secret that woman be confront with these issue more than man .
be call on woman to speak up for dr . benjamin .
you not have to agree with the policy of president obama or even with the nomination of dr . benjamin , but we not continue to allow society to dictate we outer appearance .
woman , start make you move today !
so in choose gupta , the tv star and neurosurgeon , president-elect barack obama seem to be reach back to the era when c. everett koop be the straight-talking surgeon general advocate for the public 's health .
as the wsj note , gupta as a journalist be already a public figure who inform the nation about health .
since cnn learn of gupta 's candidacy , the cable network have make sure he on-air reporting have not touch health-care policy or other subject involve the new administration , the wsj report .
obama nominate rural catholic doctor as surgeon general .
washington d . c . , jul 13 , 2009 / 02 : 00 pm -lrb- cna -rrb- .
president barack obama have announce that he be nominate a rural alabama catholic doctor to be the u . s . surgeon general .
react to the news , the rector of mobile catholic cathedral , where she serve as lector , be encourage she to defend the unborn in she new position .
in a monday statement president obama say he intend to nominate dr . regina benjamin as surgeon general , the united state government chief health educator . '' .
the president announcement focus on health care reform as a urgent challenge .
dr . benjamin , the first black woman to be admit to the american medical association , found the bayou la batre rural health clinic in alabama in 1990 .
there , she serve the poor alabama community on the gulf coast after 1998 hurricane george and 2005 hurricane katrina .
she have to rebuild the clinic after it burn down , receive a 500 , 000 macarthur foundation genius grant in 2008 for the effort .
dr . benjamin be know as be a national leader in improve health disparity , motivate by the need in she community .
immigrant from vietnam , cambodia and lao make up a third of the area population of 2 , 500 .
she receive the nelson mandela award for health and human rights in 1998 .
pope benedict xvi award she the pro ecclessia et pontifice medal in 2006 .
president obama announcement also note that dr . benjamin receive the 2000 national caring award which be inspire by mother teresa .
the nominee graduate from xavier university in new orlean , a catholic school descend from the educational work of st . katharine drexel .
dr . benjamin receive she medical degree from the university of alabama , birmingham .
dr . benjamin have also serve on the board of trustee for the catholic health association , a position that she will resign from to take on she new job .
in a monday statement , cha president and chief executive officer sister carol keehan , dc , say that the organization rejoice for we nation in dr . benjamin nomination .
in dr . benjamin , we have a brilliant physician who understand health care , nationally and internationally ; but even more important , she know the health care need of the people of bayou la batre , alabama , who she meet on a daily basis . '' .
sr . keehan say the nominee will enrich the nation with she competence and integrity and she praise dr . benjamin daily experience work in a very vulnerable committee . '' .
cna speak with msgr . michael l . farmer , vicar general of the archdiocese of mobile and rector at the cathedral of the immaculate conception in mobile .
msgr . farmer say dr . benjamin be a delightful lady who have serve as lector at the cathedral and have be readily available to speak with various catholic organization .
she have also work with catholic charity in mobile and have speak on the good the organization do .
he report that she grow up at the historically african - american parish shrine of the holy cross in the gulf coast town of daphne , alabama .
the monsignor also confirm that then - archbishop of mobile oscar lipscomb recommend dr . regina benjamin for the pro ecclesia et pontifice award .
the medal be bestow to lay people and clergy who have give zealous and outstanding service to the church .
the honor be institute by pope leo xiii in 1888 .
he recommend she for she example in she catholic faith as well as in she medical profession , '' msgr . farmer say , note the amazing amount of work she have do for the common good and for health care in south mobile county .
express certainty that dr . benjamin have opportunity to go elsewhere , he say the doctor have make a concrete decision to remain in alabama and address she patient need .
she note not only for clinic work , but for go on site to these people home .
and they not necessarily the nicest place to go to . '' .
he say it be remarkable and bridge - building that dr . benjamin , a african - american woman , have do she work in the bayou , which he describe as a majority white community with a lot of poor people in it . '' .
give the appointment and policy decision of the obama administration that favor the promotion of abortion , cna ask msgr . farmer if he know what dr . benjamin position be on abortion .
he explain that he do not explicitly know dr . benjamin position on abortion and other life issue and have never discuss it with she .
i would hope that she position would be in line with the church position , '' he tell cna .
as far as i know she have be in conformity with the catholic church . '' .
i would hope that that would continue , '' he add , note that it could be difficult to adhere to catholic moral teaching in a position with the obama administration .
in a monday morning telephone interview with cna , sr . keehan point out that dr . benjamin not in a specialty that would do abortion and that she work to provide health care to the poor and elderly demonstrate she tremendous attention to the issue of life . '' .
and you get she own archbishop who ask the holy father to give she the pro ecclesia medal .
you not get that for just be a token catholic , '' she tell cna .
in december 2008 a coalition of several dozen pro - abortion group release a strategy document title advance reproductive rights and health in a new administration call on obama to improve access to abortion care . '' .
the document name the surgeon general office as a position of interest . '' .
charger ' jackson arrest on suspicion of dui .
but after be arrest for suspicion dui earlier this week , he have bigger worry than he role in the charger ' offense .
10new in san diego be report that jackson be arrest by the california highway patrol early tuesday morning after fail sobriety test .
chp officer brad baehr say jackson be on probation for a previous dui arrest .
the charger will not discipline jackson at this time , but it be almost a guarantee that the nfl will step in and suspend he for several game at the start of this season .
however , unless you hear otherwise , jackson will be play in this week 's divisional playoff at pittsburgh .
those in postseason league -lrb- like we salcap game or we 3-for-all game -rrb- should avoid jackson , but not just because of he recent trouble with the law .
he be hold without a catch for the second time all year last week , and this week he face pittsburgh 's top-ranked pass defense -lrb- 156.9 yard allow per game -rrb- .
in san diego 's first meeting with the steeler this season , jackson be hold to just two catch for 25 yard .
jackson 's recent run-in with the law effectively put a end to he keeper value for next season .
san diego lineman arrest on suspicion of dui .
on feb . 04 , 2009 .
san diego charger defensive tackle jamal william be arrest on suspicion of drunken driving , the team '' s second such arrest in less than a month .
william be pull over for speed early sunday on a freeway outside downtown san diego , the california highway patrol say .
william give a blood sample for a blood - alcohol test , but the result be not yet know .
william be book into county jail and later release on bail .
the city attorney '' s office say the case hadn '' t be submit as of tuesday .
'' it '' be disappointing to hear about the issue involve jamal william , '' general manager a . j . smith say in a statement release by the team .
'' we '' ll continue to monitor the situation and let the legal process run its course .
'' the charger have always be leader and positive contributor to we community , '' smith add .
'' we take we stature in the community very seriously .
through the charger and the nfl , we player receive one of the most comprehensive education and support program in sport to help they deal with issue that affect all segment of society . '' .
smith didn '' t return a call seek further comment .
charger receiver vincent jackson be arrest for investigation of dui on jan . 6 , five day before san diego '' s playoff loss at pittsburgh .
jackson be due in court feb . 17 .
he be on probation for a previous dui arrest , the chp say .
william , a 11 - year veteran , share the team '' be mvp award with quarterback philip river this season .
san diego charger defensive tackle face dui charge .
jamal william , the defensive tackle for the san diego charger be arrest on suspicion of drunk drive early morning on sunday , february 1 , 2009 .
he be the second charger '' player within the last month to be arrest for dui .
william be initially pull over for speed on a freeway outside downtown .
he submit to a blood - alcohol test , but it will take a few week for the result to be complete .
william be take to a county jail where he later be release on bail .
william be a 11 - year veteran and recipient of the charger '' most valuable player award this season .
accord to the city attorney '' s office , william '' case have not be submit as of tuesday , february 3 , 2009 .
the team '' s general manager , a . j . smith say that '' we '' ll continue to monitor the situation and let the legal process run its course . '' .
he go on to say , '' the charger have always be leader and positive contributor to we community .
we take we stature in the community very seriously .
through the charger and the nfl , we player receive one of the most comprehensive education and support program in sport to help they deal with issue that affect all segment of society . '' .
vincent jackson , the charger receiver , be also recently arrest on allegation of dui .
he dui arrest occur five day before san diego '' s playoff loss at pittsburgh .
jackson '' s court date be set for february 17 , 2009 .
when he be arrest , he be on probation for a previous dui arrest , accord to the california highway patrol .
charger wr jackson will play vs. steeler .
a arrest for suspicion of drive under the influence will not affect the playing status of san diego charger wide receiver vincent jackson for sunday 's divisional playoff game at pittsburgh .
jackson be arrest on the dui charge early tuesday morning by the california highway patrol .
however , the fourth-year wide receiver likely will not face disciplinary action until the 2009 season .
a nfl spokesman on wednesday say the league will await a determination by the court before consider disciplinary action against jackson .
along with the misdemeanor dui allegation , california highway patrol officer brad baehr say jackson be cite for drive on probation for a prior dui .
jackson issue a statement release through the team .
'' i be stop by a officer , '' he say .
'' i do not think any charge will be file as a result of the stop .
in the event they be , i look forward to clear my name and prove my innocence . '' .
baehr say he be not aware of the particulars of the previous dui charge and that result of jackson 's blood test be pend .
jackson have he finest season in 2008 with with 59 reception for 1,098 yard and seven touchdown for the afc west champion .
'' we be aware of the off-the-field issue involve vincent , '' team general manager a.j. smith say in a statement .
'' obviously we be disappoint .
we take these issue very seriously .
move forward , we will monitor the situation and have no further comment . '' .
charger jamal william arrest on dui suspicion .
post 2 / 3 / 2009 11 : 11 pm .
charger defensive tackle jamal william be arrest on suspicion of drunken driving , the team second such arrest in less than a month .
william be pull over for speed early sunday on a freeway outside downtown , the california highway patrol say .
william give a blood sample for a blood - alcohol test , but the result not be know for a few week .
william be book into county jail and later release on bail .
the city attorney office say the case have be submit as of tuesday .
it disappointing to hear about the issue involve jamal william , '' general manager a . j . smith say in a statement release by the team .
will continue to monitor the situation and let the legal process run its course .
the charger have always be leader and positive contributor to we community , '' smith add .
we take we stature in the community very seriously .
through the charger and the nfl , we player receive one of the most comprehensive education and support program in sport to help they deal with issue that affect all segment of society . '' .
smith do return a call seek further comment .
charger receiver vincent jackson be arrest for investigation of dui on jan . 6 , five day before san diego playoff loss at pittsburgh .
jackson be due in court feb . 17 .
he be on probation for a previous dui arrest , the chp say .
william , a 11 - year veteran , share the team most valuable player award with quarterback philip river this season .
the charger reach the playoff with a 8 - 8 record .
coincidentally , the charger be the first nfl team to implement safe ride solution , a program in which pro athlete who have too much to drink can call a toll - free number and request a ride from a off - duty police officer .
for implement the program , the charger be award the nfl winston - shell award for demonstrate commitment and dedication to develop unique and innovative idea and solution .
smith often speak of sign character player , yet the charger have have they share of off - field problem in recent season .
in 2006 , there be seven run - in with the law by charger player , include linebacker steve foley shooting by a off - duty coronado police officer who suspect he of drunken driving , and two other player who be arrest for investigation of dui .
besides the arrest , linebacker shawne merriman be suspend four game for testing positive for steroid in 2006 , and linebacker stephen cooper be suspend by the nfl for the first four game of the 2008 season after test positive for a ban stimulant .
jackson arrest on dui charge .
despite he arrest on suspicion of drive under the influence early yesterday , charger receiver vincent jackson will play in sunday 's afc divisional playoff game at pittsburgh .
jackson , 25 , be drive east on state route 52 near interstate 805 just after 2:30 a.m. when he be pull over for a observe traffic violation , california highway patrol officer brad baehr say .
jackson face the misdemeanor dui allegation as well as charge that he be drive on probation for a prior dui in june 2006 , baehr say .
the result of a blood test be pend .
jackson proffer he innocence in a statement release yesterday afternoon .
'' this morning i be stop by a officer , '' jackson say in the statement .
'' i do not think any charge will be file as a result of the stop .
in the event they be , i look forward to clear my name and prove my innocence . '' .
the arrest will not affect jackson 's status for sunday 's game .
the nfl 's collective bargaining agreement give the league , not team , authority to punish player for alcohol and substance abuse .
any discipline by the league would be mete out for the 2009 season , several source say .
a suspension certainly be possible .
the nfl 's substance-abuse policy state : '' discipline for a second or subsequent offense be likely to be a suspension , the duration of which may escalate for repeat offens . '' .
jare allen , then with kansa city , be suspend for the first four game of the 2007 season after be charge with dui twice in one year .
the nfl later reduce he suspension to two game .
charger player have the day off yesterday .
general manager a.j. smith issue the follow statement on jackson 's arrest .
'' we be aware of the off-the-field issue involve vincent .
obviously , we be disappoint .
we take these issue very seriously .
move forward , we will monitor the situation and have no further comment . '' .
jackson be drive a 2008 gmc sierra register to he , baehr say .
he be book into county jail and be release by 6 a.m. , baehr say .
jackson , in he fourth season , catch a career-high 59 pass and lead the team with 1,098 yard , also a career high .
he seven receive touchdown be also a career best and second on the team .
earlier this week , smith call jackson a '' true professional '' and '' ultimate team player '' for how hard jackson play even while not catch any pass .
'' you win championship with player like vincent jackson , '' smith say .
the general manager have put a emphasis on character and avoid off-the-field issue .
the charger have not have any arrest become public this season and have be relatively trouble-free in recent year .
in 2006 , linebacker steve foley be shoot by a off-duty coronado policeman who suspect foley of drive under the influence .
foley plead guilty to misdemeanor drunken driving and be place on five year ' probation .
in july , he settle a lawsuit against the city of coronado for $ 5.5 million .
jackson 's contract run through 2009 , and he be among the hottest young receiver in the league .
what become of this incident , combine with the previous dui , could affect jackson 's long-term future with the charger .
smith have let go a number of player who have have off-the-field trouble .
while none be as productive or possess the upside of jackson , smith do last february release tackle shane olivea just two year after sign olivea to a contract that guarantee he $ 9 million .
olivea later undergo treatment for a addiction to pain killer .
'' you be a charger one year at a time , '' smith have often say .
recently , speaking of the lack of incident involve he player , smith say , '' it be very important if you want to be a charger you do the right thing on and off the field . '' .
the charger leave friday for pittsburgh , where they will face the steeler at 1:45 p.m. sunday .
charger lineman jamal william face dui charge .
10 : 55 p . m . feb . 2 , 2009 .
charger defensive lineman jamal william be arrest early sunday on suspicion of drunken driving after he be speed down state route 94 , the california highway patrol say .
william , 32 , be go west in he 2008 bentley about 1 : 30 a . m . , chp officer brian penning say .
he say he do not know how fast william be go .
a chp officer pull william over near home avenue east of downtown , in the ridgeview / webster area .
penning say william give a blood sample for a blood - alcohol test , but the result be not yet know .
william be book into county jail and later be release on bail .
another charger , receiver vincent jackson , be arrest early jan . 6 on suspicion of drive under the influence on state route 52 near interstate 805 .
jackson say in a statement at the time that he look forward to prove he innocence .
charger receiver arrest for dui .
san diego charger receiver vincent jackson be arrest on suspicion of drunk driving on tuesday morning , five day before a key nfl playoff game .
police apprehend jackson at about 2:30 a.m. and book he for the misdemeanour before he release , make for a long night with a playoff loom on sunday at pittsburgh against the steeler .
jackson enjoy the best of he four nfl season in 2008 with 59 catch for 1,098 yard and seven touchdown .
'' we be aware of the off-the-field issue involve vincent , '' charger general manager a.j. butler say in a statement .
'' obviously we be disappoint .
we take these issue very seriously .
move forward , we will monitor the situation . '' .
william dui arrest just the latest for charger .
team have program to address problem .
2 a . m . feb . 4 , 2009 .
two year ago , the charger win a nfl special award for help start a san diego program by which player who be imbibe can call a private number for a ride home , a alternative to drive under the influence .
a former charger fullback , lorenzo neal , be among the co - founder of the '' safe ride solution '' program that since have be expand to other nfl city .
evidently , though , the drinking and drive problem have be eradicate in san diego .
sunday , for the second time in less than four week , a charger player be pull over in the early - morning hour and arrest on suspicion of dui .
'' it disappointing to hear about the issue involve jamal william , '' say general manager a . j . smith in a news release issue by the team yesterday .
'' will continue to monitor the situation and let the legal process run its course . '' .
smith statement serve as the only comment from the charger .
a request to interview club president dean spano be decline by a spokesman .
as it be , the charger be still await the disposition of a similar case involve wide receiver vincent jackson , arrest jan . 6 in clairemont on suspicion of drive under the influence .
jackson , also face charge of drive while on probation for a prior dui , have a arraignment set for feb . 17 in san diego superior court .
william , a three - time pro bowl nose tackle , be stop for speed westbound on state route 94 at approximately 1 : 30 a . m sunday .
arrest by the chp on suspicion of drunken driving , he be book into county jail and later release on bond .
result of william blood - alcohol test have not be release .
'' these be just two more arrest that have have , '' say pat hodgkin , local executive director of mother against drunk driving -lrb- madd -rrb- , note that roughly 13 , 000 dui conviction be issue every year in san diego county .
'' however , these be media - worthy professional .
these be individual that not only youth look up to , but adult look up to as well .
they need to understand that they have a effect on people and a responsibility . '' .
the charger be involve in one of the most publicized and bizarre instance of a dui stop in 2006 .
linebacker steve foley be shoot three time by a off - duty coronado police officer who follow foley from downtown to the player home in poway .
foley , he career end by the bullet wound , later plead guilty to misdemeanor dui .
it be that case that prompt gary lawrence , a detective with the northern division of the san diego police department , to ally with the charger in a program in which player who be drink would call '' safe ride solution '' and be drive home by a off - duty member of law enforcement .
'' anytime anybody arrest for dui , i get very disappointed , and not just when athlete be involve , '' say lawrence yesterday .
'' be talk about a crime where people be kill or injure , a crime where people go to jail , and it 100 percent preventable . '' .
cite he company confidentiality agreement with client , lawrence decline to discuss anything specific pertain to the charger and they player .
from its start with the team , though , the business have grow to include client from other high - profile realm and put to work by other nfl franchise .
in recognition of the program , the league give the charger its winston - shell award in 2007 for '' demonstrate commitment and dedication to develop unique and innovative idea and solution . '' .
charger say he be innocent of dui .
wide receiver jackson say he do not think charge will be file .
san diego charger wide receiver vincent jackson be arrest yesterday on suspicion of drunken driving .
jackson fail sobriety test shortly after 2 a.m. on state route 52 in san diego , say california highway patrol officer ray scheidne .
he say he do not know jackson 's blood-alcohol level .
a officer stop jackson after spot the player brake abruptly , speeding and weave in a 2008 gmc sierra , say highway patrol officer brad baehr .
jackson be on probation for a previous dui arrest , he say .
the player be take to the san diego county jail and later release .
jackson , in a brief statement release through the team , say he do not think charge would be file against he .
'' in the event they be , i look forward to clear my name and prove my innocence , '' he say .
a gun own by indianapolis colt star marvin harrison be use in a april shooting , but investigator still can not determine who pull the trigger , the city 's chief prosecutor say yesterday .
five of the six bullet casing find at the north philadelphia shooting scene come from harrison 's weapon , but investigator have conflicting witness account of who fire it , philadelphia district attorney lynne abraham say .
no charge have be file in the april 28 shooting and the investigation remain open .
bruce smith - the nfl 's career sack leader - rod woodson , shannon sharpe and john randle be among the 15 finalist for induction into the pro football hall of fame , the only first-year eligible player to make the final round this year .
join they will be two contributor - former commissioner paul tagliabue and buffalo bill owner ralph wilson - as well as two senior nominee select last august by the senior committee - former atlanta defensive end claude humphrey and former dallas wide receiver bob haye .
between four and seven candidate will be elect in the balloting that will take place on jan. 31 , the day before the super bowl .
a former new england patriot lineman and high school football coach in walpole , mass , have be release on bail as he await trial on charge he rape a 15-year-old girl .
daniel villa post $ 7,500 -lrb- u.s. -rrb- bail yesterday and be fit for a electronic monitoring bracelet .
the condition of villa 's bail include stay away from child under 16 .
charger jamal william arrest on suspicion of dui .
february 5 , 2009 .
for the second time in less than a month , a member of the san diego charger have be arrest on suspicion of drunk driving .
accord to the california highway patrol , defensive tackle jamal william be arrest on suspicion of drunken drive last weekend on a freeway outside downtown .
william , who be book into county jail and later release on bail , do give a blood sample for a blood - alcohol test .
however the result have not yet be divulge .
just last month , wide receiver vincent jackson , who be on probation for a previous dui arrest , be pull over for investigation of dui .
that arrest be just five day prior to the team second - round playoff loss at pittsburgh .
in a statement release by the team , general manager a . j . smith note , it disappointing to hear about the issue involve jamal william .
will continue to monitor the situation and let the legal process run its course .
the charger have always be leader and positive contributor to we community .
we take we stature in the community very seriously . '' .
while everyone be human , this appear to be yet another case of a professional athlete not use the matter that be provide to all of we between we ear .
with more and more professional athlete make news these day , and oftentimes not for the right reason , it be no wonder many people have trouble relate with the pro .
salary that the common man generally do see and a attitude of not care in many case be just part of the problem .
while william and jackson be presume innocent , hopefully both of they learn a lesson .
at the end of the day , they allege action not only impact they , but that family of four , the couple out on a date , or the guy return home from he work shift .
when you get behind the wheel of you car drunk , you could ruin more than just you life .
charger ' receiver arrest .
san diego charger wide receiver vincent jackson be arrest yesterday on suspicion of drunken driving .
jackson fail sobriety test shortly after 2 a.m. local time on state route 52 , california highway patrol officer ray scheidne say .
jackson be on probation for a previous similar arrest , he say .
jackson , in a statement release through the nfl team , say he do not think charge would be file against he .
'' in the event they be , i look forward to clear my name and prove my innocence , '' he say .
charger '' jamal william arrest for dui .
on february 4 , 2009 .
charger defensive tackle jamal william be arrest early sunday for suspicion of drive under the influence .
william be pull over by the california highway patrol for speeding in a san diego freeway .
he be give a blood alcohol test but the result have not be reveal .
he be take to the county jail where he be book and release on bail .
accord to authority , he be drive he bentley at about 1 : 00 be sunday on highway 94 when the cop stop he .
this be the second dui related arrest for the team .
earlier this year , star receiver vincent jackson be arrest for drunk drive a few day before they play - off game .
charger ' jackson arrest on suspicion of dui .
charger wide receiver vincent jackson be arrest early yesterday on suspicion of drunken driving .
jackson fail sobriety test shortly after 2 a.m. on state route 52 in san diego , say california highway patrol officer ray scheidne .
he say he do not know jackson 's blood alcohol level .
jackson be on probation for a previous dui arrest , highway patrol officer brad baehr say .
he be take to the san diego county jail and release .
city attorney weigh filing dui charge against charger jamal william .
post : apr 02 , 2009 11 : 06 pm cest .
update : apr 02 , 2009 11 : 06 pm cest .
the city attorney office be consider today whether to file misdemeanor drunken - drive charge against charger defensive lineman jamal william .
william , 32 , be arrest around 1 : 30 a . m . feb . 1 on state route 94 on suspicion of drunken driving .
result from a blood - alcohol test administer when william be arrest be release wednesday , show a level of 0 . 07 percent - - just under the state legal limit of 0 . 08 percent , california highway patrol officer brian penning tell the san diego union - tribune .
he say the blood be draw well after william arrest , mean he could have be intoxicate when when officer pull he over for speeding in he 2008 bentley .
city attorney spokeswoman gina coburn tell the union - tribune the case remain under review and be be investigate further .
san diego 's jackson be arrest on suspicion of drunk driving .
he allegedly fail sobriety test after be stop on san diego freeway .
he release statement say he doubt charge will be file and look forward to prove he innocence .
san diego charger wide receiver vincent jackson be arrest tuesday on suspicion of drunk driving .
jackson fail sobriety test shortly after 2 a.m. on state route 52 in san diego , a california highway patrol officer say .
jackson , whose blood-alcohol level be unknown , be on probation for a previous dui arrest .
the player be take to the san diego county jail and release .
charger general manager a.j. smith say he be aware of jackson 's '' off-the-field issue . '' .
jackson , in a statement release through the team , say he do not think charge would be file against he .
'' in the event they be , i look forward to clear my name and prove my innocence , '' he say .
charger william arrest on suspicion of dui .
2 / 3 / 2009 5 : 59 : 13 pm .
san diego charger defensive tackle jamal william be arrest on suspicion of drunk driving , the team second such arrest in less than a month .
william be pull over for speed early sunday on a freeway outside the city downtown area , the california highway patrol say .
william give a blood sample for a blood - alcohol test , but the result be not yet know .
william be book into county jail and later release on bail .
the city attorney office say the case have be submit as of tuesday .
charger general manager a . j . smith do not return a call .
charger receiver vincent jackson be arrest for investigation of dui on jan . 6 , five day before san diego playoff loss at pittsburgh .
jackson be due in court feb . 17 .
he be on probation for a previous dui arrest , the california highway patrol say .
william , a 11 - year veteran , share the team most valuable player award with quarterback philip river this season .
the charger reach the playoff with a 8 - 8 record .
charger ' jackson arrest on suspicion of dui .
san diego charger wide receiver vincent jackson be arrest on suspicion of drive under the influence early tuesday morning .
accord to the san diego union-tribune , jackson be pull over on state route 52 just past 2:30 a.m. in the clairemont section of san diego , follow a observe traffic violation .
he be book and later release .
jackson could be face misdemeanor on the alleged dui itself in addition to violate probation for a prior dui charge .
jackson release a statement through the team later tuesday .
'' yesterday i be stop by a officer .
i do not think any charge will be file as a result of the stop .
in the event they be , i look forward to clear my name and prove my innocence . '' .
a fourth-year pro out of northern colorado , jackson enjoy a breakout year for the charger this season .
he set career-high of 59 reception , 1,098 yard and seven touchdown .
san diego knock off the indianapolis colt , 23-17 , in last saturday 's afc wild card matchup after post a 52-21 thumping over division rival denver in a regular season finale that decide the afc west champion .
the charger be get set to take on the pittsburgh steeler sunday in a afc divisional playoff tilt .
charger jamal william arrest for dui .
in the steeped nfl tradition of drinking and driving , charger nt jamal william be do he part to uphold the tradition .
of course , football be the ultimate team game and fellow charger vincent jackson be arrest last month for dui as well .
although result be pend for the blood - alcohol test that william take , he have be book and later release on bail .
while i make fun of a topic that definitely not funny , i still not understand how these player with they multus - million dollar salary not hire driver or car service .
san diego charger receiver vincent jackson have be arrest on suspicion of drink drive five day before a key nfl playoff game .
police arest he in san diego at 2.30 and book he before release he .
the charger be due to meet pittsburgh steeler in a playoff match on sunday .
victory in that game would see they meet either tennessee or baltimore for a spot in next month 's super bowl .
jackson be enjoy the best of he four nfl season in the current campaign with 59 catch for 1098 yard and seven touchdown .
'' we be aware of the off-the-field issue involve vincent , '' charger general manager aj butler say in a statement .
'' obviously we be disappoint .
we take these issue very seriously .
move forward , we will monitor the situation . '' .
hey , jamal william : hire a driver !
thursday , apr 2 , 2009 | update 1 : 32 pm pdt .
the city attorney office be consider whether to file misdemeanor drunk - drive charge against charger defensive lineman jamal william .
william , 32 , be pull over for speeding in he bentley on state route 94 around 1 : 30 a . m . on february 1 , but be arrest on suspicion of drunk driving .
he have refuse a breathalyzer test and be give a blood - alcohol test instead .
the result from the test be release wednesday and show a level of 0 . 07 percent - - just under the california legal limit of 0 . 08 percent .
chp officer brian penning say that the blood have be draw well after william arrest , mean he could have be intoxicate when officer have pull he over .
city attorney spokeswoman gina coburn say the case remain under review and be be investigate further .
polygamist prophet warren jeff charge againjuly 23 , 2008 . 4 : 49 pm .
seven indictment , nine charge and six leader of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint now face trial in texa .
among they be flds prophet warren jeff , who have already be convict in utah on two count of be a accomplice to the rape of a 14 - year - old girl and be now await trial on similar charge in arizona .
the fld also have follower live in bountiful , b . c . bountiful have be the object of scrutiny by the rcmp and the b . c . attorney general since 2004 .
a special prosecutor , terry robertson , be appoint in june to determine whether charge should be lay .
the texa grand jury hear evidence collect during the april raid on the eldorado compound that result in more than 400 woman and child be take into protective custody .
they be later allow to return to the compound after a texas appeal court rule that the child protection official have overstep they legal boundary .
the grand jury also hear testimony from at least four fld woman include prophet warren jeffs 16 - year - old daughter who she father place into a religious marriage to a older man when she be just 15 .
the texa charge against jeff be a first - degree felony count of sexually assault a under - aged girl .
the other man - none of whom have yet be name - face charge relate to sexual assault of under - aged girl and bigamy .
jeff will not be try in texa until he go to court in arizona .
matt smith , the county attorney in mohave county , az . say in a press release wednesday that he have hear about the charge , but the indictment in texa do not affect the arizona case at all . '' .
the american have take a very different approach to the fld .
in utah , arizona and texa , the main thrust of the investigation have be the sexual abuse of under - aged girl .
in british columbia , attorney - general wally oppal have focus he attention mainly on the criminal code offence of polygamy .
warren jeff trial : defend spiritual marriage , polygamy .
july 29 , 2011 : 57 pm .
warren jeff , leader of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint , who have be silent since he trial begin last thursday , speak for the first time with the jury present friday .
jeff be charge with two count of sexual assault for rape two under - aged girl and father a child with one of the girl .
object to the testimony from a fbi agent about document seize from he church compound in 2008 , jeff deliver a 55 - minute speech argue that the raid on the church be illegal and that charge bring upon he and other member of the fld be unwarranted .
you be now touch that which be sacred .
thus on these grounds we call upon this court to render justice before sacred trust be trample upon , '' jeff say during he objection .
during the raid of the yearning for zion ranch , execute after a tip that turn out to be a hoax , police witness several underage girl who be heavily pregnant .
this lead to the arrest of jeff as well as 11 other man of the flsd .
thus far , seven man have be try and convict of sexual assault and bigamy , among other crime , and have receive sentence of between six and 75 year .
jeff himself may receive up to 119 - year in prison if convict .
in he testimony on friday , jeff say there be no crime , explain that he and both girl have a spiritual marriage bond .
he go on to say that the fld must follow the law set out for it by god . '' .
if we do not live these law we be damned here and hereafter .
we believe in a marriage system of eternity call celestial marriage , wherein celestial means heavenly authorize , not to be intervene by government intervention , '' jeff say .
jeff end he speech by say , aman . '' .
jeff remain completely silent during the first four day of the trial , during which he dismiss he defense team in order to serve as he own defense , and refuse to give a opening statement after the judge decline he request for more time to prepare .
mr . jeff , the court be not go to recess these proceed to let you go to law school , '' say u . s . district judge barbara walther .
in the meanwhile , special prosecutor for the texa attorney general office , eric nichol , deliver he opening statement , detail that he will submit as evidence a audio recording of jeff have sex with a 12 - year - old as well as a dna report confirm jeff as the father of a 15 - year - old flsd member child .
jeff remain silent throughout the prosecution opening statement but interject repeatedly during nichol response to he speech .
judge walther recess the court and direct that jeff speak with he counsel , who remain available in case they be need , about proper court decorum .
director of criminal clinic for the texa tech school of law , patrick metze , comment on the case , say jeff not be able to continue the trial without lawyer .
at some point , the judge will have have enough , so it not go to be a pleasnt experience and she not just go to let he prophesize , '' metze tell the san angelo standard time .
2 leader of polygamist group arrest in canada .
two top leader of a polygamous community in western canada have be arrest and charge with practice polygamy , british columbia 's attorney general say wednesday .
attorney general wally oppal say winston blackmore be charge with marry 20 woman , while jame oler be accuse of marry two woman .
'' this have be a very complex issue , '' oppal say .
'' it be be with we for well over 20 year . '' .
blackmore , long know as '' the bishop of bountiful , '' run a independent sect of about 400 member in the town of bountiful .
he once run the canadian arm of the utah-based fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter-day saint , but be eject in 2003 by that group 's leader , warren jeff .
oler be the bishop of bountiful 's fld community loyal to jeff .
even though many of the town 's resident be related or have same last name , follower of the two leader be splintered and be not allow to talk with each other .
fld member practice polygamy in arrange marriage , a tradition tie to the early theology of the mormon church .
mormon renounce polygamy in 1890 as a condition of utah 's statehood .
last june , oppal appoint a special prosecutor to look into allegation of criminal abuse at bountiful despite two earlier legal opinion that say it would be difficult to proceed with criminal charge for polygamy itself .
blackmore openly acknowledge have numerous wife and dozen of child but have say he community abhor sexual abuse of child .
oppal say some legal expert believe polygamy charge will not withstand a constitutional challenge in canada over the issue of freedom of religion .
'' i have always take the position that be a valid offense in law , '' oppal say .
'' and if someone say that it be contrary to they religion , let a judge make that decision . '' .
the fld , with a estimate 10,000 member , be headquarter in colorado city , ariz. , and hildale , utah .
in 1947 , a small group move just across the border into lister , british columbia .
the newcomer dub the pristine spot at the base of a snowy mountain range bountiful .
besides a estimate 1,000 canadian live in bountiful , the u.s. embassy estimate there be about 300 american there who be loyal to blackmore and 200 other who follow jeff , who be in jail await trial in arizona on four count of be a accomplice to sexual conduct with a minor .
warren jeff find guilty on sexual assault charge .
on august 04 2011 5 : 46 pm .
a san antonio jury have find polygamist leader warren jeff guilty on both sexual assault charge on thursday .
the 55 - year older leader of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint be charge with sexual assault of a child after take a 12 - year old girl and a 15 - year girl as spiritual wife . '' .
he could be sentence to up to 119 year in prison .
the jury decision put a end to a controversial case that see jeff represent himself against the charge .
jeff largely avoid defend himself during the case , only offer a i be at peace , '' phrase as he close statement .
the jury make its decision on the same day that the prosecution play a tape recording of what it allege be jeff sexually assault the 11 - year old girl .
polygamy arrest make in canada .
two leader of polygamous faction in bountiful , british columbia , have be arrest , canadian authority announce .
jim oler , 44 , and winston blackmore , 52 , have be charge under the criminal code with practice polygamy , attorney general wally oppal say in a statement .
british columbia 's royal canadian mount police have schedule a news conference this afternoon .
the man be arrest this morning , say sgt. tim shield , a media relation officer for the rcmp .
the man be arrest this morning , say sgt. tim shield , a media relation officer for the rcmp .
they first court appearance be schedule for creston provincial court on jan. 21 .
oler , accuse of have two wife , be charge with '' practice polygamy '' between nov. 1 , 2004 , and oct. 8 , 2008 .
blackmore , allege to have 19 wife , be charge with '' practice polygamy '' between may 1 , 2005 , and dec. 8 , 2006 .
oppal say a special prosecution into allegation of criminal misconduct in the community of bountiful , a self-named community near creston , lead to the arrest .
'' the arrest be the culmination of a intensive , seven-month charge assessment review by special prosecutor terrence robertson , '' who explore whether the man be in '' a conjungal relationship with more than one individual at a time , '' oppal say .
he stress the prosecution be independent of the criminal justice branch and the government of british columbia , point out robertson be a independent special prosecutor .
he decline to comment on the specifics of the case .
rcmp officer in creston begin investigate allegation of polygamy and sexual exploitation in bountiful in the fall of 2005 , shield say in a statement .
the community , with a population of approximately 1,000 , follow the practice of the polygamous fundamentalist church of jesus christ on latter day saint .
that sect 's traditional base be hildale , utah and colorado city , arizona , but its outpost include the yearning for zion ranch in eldorado , texa .
texas official raid the ranch last april and temporarily remove 439 child .
the canadian investigation focus on the two man in position of authority , shield say .
it be complete in september 2006 with a report to crown counsel , which recommend charge of polygamy and sexual exploitation .
a follow-up investigation begin in september and uncovered additional evidence supply to robertson , the special prosecutor , in november .
in early december , he advise the rcmp he have approve one charge of polygamy against the two man .
the charge be swear on tuesday .
the polygamous fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint be lead president warren s. jeff , now serve a sentence for be a accomplice to rape for conduct a underage marriage .
he face similar charge in arizona and texa .
while the doctrine tie plural marriage to exaltation in heaven be root in early mormon theology , the mainstream church of jesus christ of latter-day saint disavow polygamy in 1890 .
the issue of polygamy have fuel a long debate in canada .
after the initial probe into bountiful , attorney say the canadian government could find no witness on sexual-assault allegation because investigator be tell that everyone consent to the act , and allegation of sexual exploitation of young woman could not be substantiate .
polygamist leader warren jeff sentence to life in prison .
august 10 , 2011 - - update 0947 gmt -lrb- 1747 hkt -rrb- .
polygamist leader warren jeff be sentence tuesday to life in prison plus 20 year for sexually assault two girl he claim be he spiritual wife . '' .
jeff , 55 , will have to spend at least 45 year in prison before be eligible for release , accord to jerry strickland , spokesman for the texa attorney general office .
the jury sentence jeff to life in prison for aggravate sexual assault of a 12 - year - old girl and 20 year in prison for the sexual assault of a 15 - year - old girl .
he must serve at least 35 year of the life sentence and half of the other sentence , strickland say .
the judge in the case order that the sentence be serve consecutively .
justice have be serve , '' jeff nephew , brent jeff , tell insession soon after the sentence .
he testify during the penalty phase of he uncle trial that jeff rape he when he be 5 year old .
i finally have this day and it be a awesome day in court to be here , involve in all of this , '' say brent jeff , now 28 .
jeff pervert he position as the head of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter - day saint to satisfy he own personal appetite and desire , '' prosecutor eric nichol say .
those appetite include force sex on the two girl , 12 and 15 , who he have take as wife , prosecutor say .
audiotape seize from he car and the church yearning for zion ranch compound in eldorado , texa , and play for juror during he trial , depict jeff offer celestial marriage instruction to the young wife , accord to prosecutor .
you have to know how to be sexually excite and to help each other ... ... ... and you have to be ready for the time i need you comfort , '' a man voice say .
this be you mission .
this be how you abide the law .
at one point , the man say , take you clothes off .
do it right now , '' follow by the sound of cry .
just not think about the pain ; you go to heaven , '' the man say .
rarely if ever in the criminal justice system in texa have we ever encourage a person such as warren jeff , whose criminal conduct span decade , multiple jurisdiction and hundred of victim , '' nichol say .
a former member of the church , rebecca musser , say the verdict will not bring back lose innocence .
but she say it can help other escape from abuse they may have suffer .
whether the currency be god or greed , the trafficking of woman and child for sex be a form of slavery , '' she say .
jeff be the eighth person from the ranch to be convict on sexual assault , bigamy and other charge , accord to the texa attorney general office .
four other be await trial .
attorney general greg abbott say he believe authority have root out the molester from the ranch , but will continue to monitor the church activity there .
we have a ongoing open investigation that will evaluate all evidence about any kind of wrongdoing out there at the compound whatsoever , '' abbott say .
juror come back with the sentence after 30 minute of deliberation tuesday .
they begin they work tuesday morning follow brief closing statement by prosecutor nichol .
jeff , who have argue that he and he faith be be persecute , instruct he attorney to deliver no closing statement .
this be not the prosecution to persecute a people , this be a prosecution to protect a people , '' nichol tell juror .
jeff do not attend the closing statement .
in addition to tape recording that the state say depict sex act with minor , prosecutor also present evidence that jeff know he be want by federal authority and that he behavior would be shun by outsider .
fbi special agent john broadway testify that jeff order the destruction of various disc and transcript three day after a arrest warrant be issue for he on june 10 , 2005 .
the polygamist sect leader establish house of hiding , '' allegedly with young girl for he to marry , broadway say .
the fbi agent also read from a priesthood record , in which jeff allegedly write : thing be happen so quickly .
there be a even younger girl that the lord want I to take .
she be 13 .
for some reason the lord be send I these girl that can be work with . '' .
jeff also write : if the world know what i be do , they would hang I from the highest tree , '' accord to evidence present in court .
refer to that comment , prosecutor nichol say during he close statement that yes , this be texas .
but no , we not hang convict anymore from the highest tree , and we not have the ability to call down the wrath of the almighty ... ... ...
we as a people choose to isolate we worst offender , to keep they away from they past and future victim . '' .
jeff breakaway sect be believe to have about 10 , 000 follower .
they practice of polygamy , which the mainstream mormon church renounce more than a century ago , be part of the sect doctrine .
b.c. attorney general confirm charge lay against top two polygamist leader .
two top leader of the controversial polygamous sect in bountiful , b.c. , have be arrest and charge with practise polygamy .
b.c. attorney general wally oppal confirm that winston blackmore and jame oler be arrest wednesday .
oppal say blackmore be allege to be marry to 20 woman , while oler be accuse of commit polygamy by be marry to two woman .
'' this have be a very complex issue , '' he tell the canadian press .
'' it be be with we for well over 20 year .
the problem have always be the defence of religion have always be raise . '' .
oppal say some legal expert have believe that a charge for practise polygamy would not withstand a charter of rights challenge over the issue of freedom of religion .
'' i have always disagree with that , '' he say .
'' i have always take the position that be a valid offence in law .
and if someone say that it be contrary to they religion let a judge make that decision . '' .
he say he be please a prosecution will proceed , provide some clarity to whether the law will be uphold by the court .
oppal say in 2005 , when he be appoint attorney general , that he be concern about the polygamy issue in bountiful '' because of the exploitation of woman and child . '' .
the community have come under investigation in the past but oppal say he ask rcmp to reopen the investigation shortly after he be elect .
sgt. tim shield tell reporter that creston rcmp begin a investigation into allegation of polygamy and sexual exploitation in the fall of 2005 .
that investigation be complete in september 2006 and recommendation be make to crown for charge to be lay .
a follow-up investigation begin last september and the two man be arrest this morning and take to the rcmp detachment in cranbrook , b.c. , shield say .
the man be expect to appear in court wednesday afternoon .
last june , oppal appoint a special prosecutor to look into allegation of criminal abuse at bountiful , say renew public concern compel he to act .
that come despite two earlier legal opinion that it would be difficult to proceed with polygamy charge .
official at the mormon hill school in bountiful , where blackmore be the superintendent , say he be arrest wednesday .
about 800 people live in the community in southeastern b.c. , where member of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint practice multiple marriage .
the sect be a breakaway offshoot of the mormon church , which renounce polygamy more than a century ago .
blackmore , who be the leader of one of two group within the community , openly admit to have numerous wife and dozen of child but have say the community abhor sexual abuse of child .
however , blackmore have refuse in previous interview to discuss allegation that teenage girl in the community marry older man or that other be send to polygamous group in the united state .
oler be the leader of the other group in the community , which have long be divide .
the issue of polygamy in british columbia come up again last year after more than 450 child be apprehend by child-welfare authority from a sister polygamous community in texa .
at least one of the girl in that case be from bountiful , refocus the spotlight on a community that have exist in relative obscurity in b.c. 's kootenay , not far from the u.s. border .
and polygamist leader warren jeff , the sect 's prophet in the u.s. , be behind bar south of the border .
he be convict in utah as a accomplice to rape and face trial in arizona on other charge relate to the marriage of member of sect there .
after the special prosecutor be announce , blackmore accuse oppal of religious persecution .
'' it can not possibly be about polygamy , '' blackmore write in a email to the canadian press last june .
'' it must be about he own religious bias and now he want the liberal government to persecute some of the citizen that they have a obligation to serve and protect . '' .
blackmore have say he have try to meet with oppal in the past , but that the attorney general have refuse .
warren jeff , polygamist leader , convict in child sexual assault case .
first post : 08 / 04 / 11 06 : 44 pm et update : 10 / 04 / 11 06 : 12 be et .
a texas jury convict polygamist sect leader warren jeff of child sexual assault thursday in a case stem from two young follower he take as bride in what he church call spiritual marriage . '' .
the 55 - year - old head of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint stand stone - face as the verdict be read .
jeff , who act as he own attorney , face up to life in prison .
the jury go immediately into sentence proceedings .
they have deliberate on a verdict for more than three hour .
prosecutor use dna evidence to show jeff father a child with a 15 - year - old girl and play a audio recording of what they say be he sexually assault a 12 - year - old girl .
they also play audio recording in which jeff be hear instruct young woman on how to please he sexually .
jeff have claim he be the victim of religious persecution .
the fld , which have at least 10 , 000 member nationwide , be a radical offshoot of mainstream mormonism .
the church believe polygamy bring exaltation in heaven and that jeff be god spokesman on earth .
police have raid the group remote west texa ranch in april 2008 , find woman dress in frontier - style dress and hairdo from the 19th century as well as see underage girl who be clearly pregnant .
the call to a abuse hotline that spur the raid turn out to be a hoax , and more than 400 child who have be place in protective custody be eventually return to they family .
but authority bring charge against several man from the group , with jeff by far the highest - profile defendant .
jeff stand mute and expressionless , stare at the floor , for all but a few seconds of the half hour he be allot for a closing argument on thursday .
at one point he mumble , i be peace , '' and say no more .
the only noise in the courtroom be the creaking of wooden bench brim with spectator .
prosecutor say the case have nothing to do with he church or he belief .
you have hear the defendant make repeat argument about religious freedom , '' say lead prosecutor eric nichol .
make no mistake , this case be not about any people , this case be not about any religion .
it be about one individual , warren steed jeff , and he action . '' .
prosecutor rely heavily on information find during the raid on the compound and after a traffic stop in nevada in 2006 , when jeff be arrest .
much of the material be discover in a vault at the end of a secret passageway in the temple and another vault in a annex building .
you might have ask yourselve , '' nichol say , a lot of people may ask , why would someone record sex ? ... ... ...
this individual consider himself to be the prophet .
everything he do , hour after hour , he be require to keep a record of that . '' .
on one of the tape play at the trial , jeff make a reference to draw close or be close , '' which authority testify be how church member refer to sex .
two female voice say ok . '' .
a good wife be train for she husband and follow the spirit of peace , '' jeff be hear say .
another audio tape include jeff and the younger girl from a recording make in august 2006 at the texa compound , accord to testimony from nick hanna , a texa ranger involve in the 2008 raid .
play in court , it be difficult to decipher , but jeff and a female voice be hear .
he say , i perform this service in the name of jesus christ , amen , '' then mention the alleged victim by name .
when she say something , he respond , not talk while pray . '' .
several minute of heavy breathing follow .
the jury wear headphone to better hear the recording and also follow a transcript .
one female juror cover she face with she hand as she listen .
jeff represent himself after firing seven attorney in the six month lead to the trial .
he break he courtroom silence with a objection mark by a nearly hourlong speech defend polygamy , and twice threaten the judge and the court with warning of punishment from god .
he refuse to cross - examine the state witness , and delay give a opening statement until he begin present he own defense .
in that statement , he evoke image of the civil rights movement and mention former mormon leader joseph smith jr .
he also ask the jury to remember constitutional guarantee of religious freedom .
the lone defense witness jeff call , church elder jd roundy , spend about 10 minute on the stand thursday discuss fld history after 4 . 5 hour of testimony wednesday evening .
jeff fail three time to remove state district judge barbara walther from the case , the last rejection come even without a hearing .
he claim walther be bias because she issue the warrant for the original raid and be frequently update as it progress .
eleven other fld man be charge with crime include sexual assault and bigamy .
all seven of those who have be prosecute be convict , receive prison sentence of between six and 75 year .
canadian authority file charge on wednesday against the leader of a group that openly practice polygamy in british columbia and have link to u.s. polygamist community , local media report .
winston blackmore and another member of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint -lrb- fld -rrb- be arrest for violate a little-used law against polygamy , the vancouver sun report on its website , cite court document .
prosecutor and police refuse to comment on the report , but have schedule a news conference in vancouver to discuss legal action involve two people from the religious community in bountiful , british columbia .
blackmore , 52 , be not available for comment .
the fld , a offshoot of the mainstream mormon church , also have community in the united state , where its leader and self-proclaimed prophet , warren jeff , have be convict on charge of force underage woman to marry older man .
british columbia attorney general wally oppal appoint a special prosecutor in june to investigate lay charge against the fld , which be believe to have about 700 member live in southeastern british columbia .
oppal have to use a special prosecutor because the province 's regular prosecution service have be openly reluctant to press polygamy charge on the grounds that the law might be rule unconstitutional as a violation of religious rights .
blackmore have challenge authority in the past to file charge against he , and have deny any criminal wrongdoing within the community .
texa jury hear warren jeff sex tape despite fld leader objection .
publish : tuesday , aug . 2 2011 7 : 08 p . m . mdt .
prosecutor tuesday put on the most shocking evidence yet in the trial of warren jeff , who be charge with sexually assault underage girl .
prosecutor play two audio recording of jeff instruct he 14 - year - old spiritual wife and several other young woman on how to please he sexually , and thus win favor with god .
jeff seem determine to halt the trial , and the judge repeatedly warn he to stop talk and sit down - even threaten to kick he out of he own trial .
once the jury have headphone and start listen to a recording , jeff repeatedly object , interrupt the record many time .
on the tape , jeff voice drone on for well over two hour , use biblical language and sometimes speak in the voice of god , counsel a number of he plural wife to perform what he call the ordinance of heavenly comfort . '' .
he promise they will feel the all - consuming fire of heaven , and by give comfort to they husband , they will be touch god .
the recording be part of the mountain of document seize in a law enforcement raid in 2008 .
on the recording , there be many long minute in which it hard to make out exactly what happen .
but it seem to include sound of fumble with clothing , sob , flushing of toilet .
at one point jeff tell the girl or woman , you have to know how to be excite sexually .
you have to be able to assist each other . '' .
it all end with prayer and suppose revelation from god , and jeff himself sing a hymn .
jeff , 55 , be head of the utah - base fundamentalist ld church , which believe polygamy bring exaltation in heaven .
he be accuse of sexually assault two girl , age 12 and 15 , he take as bride in what he church call spiritual marriage . '' .
a forensic analyst testify monday that jeff be the father of the 15 - year - old child .
on tuesday , prosecutor also play a tape of jeff talk to the girl when she be 14 , after texa ranger nick hanna testify about document and electronic file seize during a 2008 police raid at the church remote compound in west texa .
among the material recover during the raid be a record of jeff marriage for time and all eternity with the 14 - year - old in january 2004 .
a excerpt from hundred of page of jeff personal journal say the child be pure and innocent and willing to obey and that he summon she parent and inform they of they girl belong to I . '' .
follower see jeff as a prophet who be god spokesman on earth .
hanna read from jeff journal , which say he take the 14 - year - old the night after they wedding with he and another of he new wife on a car ride for training . '' .
there , he instruct they on they responsibility as he wife and have the session tape .
the recording be transcribe and place in church record later seize by police .
lead prosecutor eric nichol play the tape for juror , who follow along use transcript .
a good wife be train for she husband and follow the spirit of peace , '' jeff be hear say .
he also make reference to draw close or be close , '' which be how church member refer to sex .
two female voice say ok . '' .
in describe the session in he journal later , jeff say he tell he wife they be honorable vessel , property of you husband kingdom and the kingdom of god on earth . '' .
jeff have represent himself since firing he high - power attorney last week .
later , nichol play a 58 - minute clip of another so - call training session from december 2004 , this one involve what he describe as 12 young lady , include the one from the first recording .
jeff stand up and talk over it , ramble about how a holy trust be be break .
i be but a mortal man seek peace , '' he say .
i be not a threat to anyone .
my faith be my only weapon . '' .
prosecutor have promise to play still another recording - this one of jeff have sex with the 12 - year - old girl - before rest they case .
nichol tell walther they would do so at the end of a court session that stretch late into tuesday night .
before the recording , hanna read excerpt of jeff journal where he describe the lord order he to visit eldorado , texa , about 45 mile south of san angelo , and the church purchasing 1 , 700 acre of land outside the town for 1 . 2 million in 2003 .
this will only be a place of refuge if it be keep sacred and secret , '' jeff write , add that he follower should populate the area and let a community grow here more in hide before the neighbor find out . '' .
he tell the faithful they could build anything they want , thanks to texa lax zoning law , and construction team work around - the - clock erect more than a dozen building , include a sprawling , white - limestone temple .
texa authority raid the compound in april 2008 after receive a call to a abuse hotline that turn out to be a hoax .
more than 400 fld child who be place in protective custody be eventually return to they family .
but police see underage girl who be clearly pregnant and find jeff journal and the other document in a vault at the end of a secret passageway in the temple .
another vault in a annex building provide still more record and file .
jeff and 11 other fld man be charge with crime include sexual assault and bigamy .
so far , all seven who have be prosecute have be convict , receive prison sentence of between six and 75 year .
two leader in the polygamous community of bountiful , b.c. , have be charge with practise polygamy under the criminal code .
winston blackmore , 52 , and jame oler , 44 , be arrest by rcmp on tuesday , attorney general wally oppal say at a news conference wednesday .
oler be the bishop of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint , while blackmore be the former fld bishop who be oust in 2002 after a power struggle with the sect 's prophet warren jeff .
the two man be to appear in court wednesday after a '' intensive '' seven-month investigation , oppal say .
'' mr. blackmore it be allege that he have commit polygamy with approximately 20 people , '' oppal say .
'' and as far as oler be concern it be allege that he have commit polygamy with two woman . '' .
blackmore have be charge with '' practise polygamy '' on may 1 , 2005 and oler have be charge with the same crime on nov. 1 , 2004 , accord to provincial court file .
'' i be please a prosecution will be proceed , as it will provide legal clarity as to the constitutionality of section 293 of the criminal code -lrb- concern polygamy -rrb- , '' oppal say in a statement .
news of the charge be welcome by audrey vance , co-chair of alter destiny through education , which be base in creston , b.c. , not far from bountiful .
vance have lobby for charge against bountiful resident .
'' we all know this be a cult and we have to do something to address this because in canada woman do have equal rights , '' she say in a interview wednesday .
blackmore , who have have 26 wife and more than 100 child , be outspoken in he belief that the charter of rights and freedom protect he religious practice of polygamy - a tenet that be set out by mormonism 's founder joseph smith , but be denounce by the mainstream church in 1890 .
at a polygamy summit in 2006 , blackmore admit that he have have '' several '' very young '' wife '' include one who be under 16 .
he repeat that when he be interview by cnn 's larry king .
blackmore lose he role as the bountiful bishop after he disagreement with jeff , the church 's prophet who have be convict of be a accomplice to the rape of a minor in utah and be currently in jail in arizona face similar charge there .
jeff and other senior fld member have also be charge in texa with offence relate to the so-called '' spiritual marriage '' to under-aged girl .
blackmore now lead a breakaway group that live in the southeastern corner of b.c. and be the head of the mormon hill school society , which run a government-funded , independent school .
over the year , blackmore amass a multi-million-dollar business empire that include a post-and-pole company , log operation and a large farm .
little be know about oler , a mechanic .
he have never speak to the media and there be few photo of he .
however , people within the community have confirm that oler have at least three wife , several of whom be in they teens when they be assign to he in placement marriage by jeff .
prophet to pedophile : polygamist warren jeff sentence to life in prison .
warren jeff , leader of the polygamist fld religious sect , be sentence to life in prison in texa , convict of sexually assault two girl , aged 15 and 12 , that he claim as he bride . ' .
august 9 , 2011 .
polygamist sect leader warren jeff be sentence to life in a texas prison on tuesday follow he conviction on charge that he sexually assault two young girl he claim as bride . '' .
the sentencing at state district court in san angelo bring to a conclusion a often bizarre trial that pit a self - proclaimed religious prophet against state prosecutor seek to expose mr . jeff as a pedophile .
after the sentence be announce , prosecutor eric nichol say jeff have corrupt and pervert he position of authority and the religious conviction of he own community to victimize woman and child to satisfy he own appetite and desire . '' .
prosecutor charge that the 55 - year - old sect leader sexually assault two girl , age 12 and 15 , by arrange illegal marriage under the guise of he religious belief .
they present a dna report that show that jeff have father a child with the 15 year old .
prosecutor also play a audio recording of jeff allegedly engage in sexual intercourse with the 12 - year - old .
the recording be seize when jeff be arrest in 2006 .
jeff be the leader of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter - day saint -lrb- fld -rrb- .
the sect be unaffiliated with the mainstream church of jesus christ of latter - day saint , also know as the mormon church .
a estimate 10 , 000 fld follower live in community in utah , arizona , and texa .
they believe polygamy be a means to gain divine acceptance .
jeff be believe to have 78 wife , 24 of they under age 17 , accord to prosecutor .
rather than focus on jeff multiple marriage , prosecutor with the texa attorney general office present a case base on allege violation of the law of consent in texa .
twelve - and 15 - year - old girl be not old enough to consent to engage in sexual activity .
under texa law , any sexual activity between a adult and a under - 17 - year - old be a sexual assault even if the minor be a willing participant .
the same activity with a under - 14 - year - old be aggravate sexual assault punishable by up to life in prison .
during the penalty phase of the case , prosecutor play a audio tape of jeff allegedly prepare five other young girl to have sex with he .
he encourage he child bride to set aside all they inhibition .
prosecutor also show juror a page from one of jeffs personal journal .
the 2005 entry say : if the world know what i be do , they would hang I from the highest tree . '' .
jeff become leader of the fld upon the death of he father in 2002 .
jeff claim the prosecution be a form of persecution target he religious belief .
prior to the trial he fire seven lawyer , and ultimately try to represent himself .
trial observer say he often pause for long period of silence before resume .
at one point , rather than present a closing statement , he stand motionless and silent before the jury .
jeff boycott most of the penalty phase of he trial .
he be represent by stand - by counsel , appoint by judge barbara walther .
the case against jeff stem from document recover in a april 2008 raid on the fdl compound near eldorado , texa .
prosecutor also introduce evidence seize from a vehicle when jeff be arrest as a fugitive in 2006 .
at one point he be list on the fbi top ten want list .
after he arrest , jeff stand trial and be convict in utah for he role in allegedly arrange marriage among he follower .
he be find guilty , but the conviction be overturn on appeal .
jeff be sentence to life in prison for he assault on the 12 - year - old .
he receive a 20 - year sentence for the assault on the 15 - year - old .
the two sentence be to be serve consecutively .
in addition to jeff , seven other elder member of the fld sect have be convict in texa trial or plead guilty .
they have receive sentence range from six to 75 year .
four more fld member be await trial .
bountiful polygamous leader charge .
rcmp sgt. tim shield and attorney-general wally oppal announce wednesday that the rcmp arrest two bountiful resident , winston k. blackmore , 52 , and jame oler , 44 , on charge of polygamy .
the arrest be the culmination of the most recent seven-month charge assessment review by special prosecutor terrence robertson .
shield say both oler and blackmore be arrest wednesday morning without incident by eight plainclothes rcmp officer in unmarked vehicle .
both man be currently in the cranbrook rcmp detachment lockup , but be expect to be release once they appear before a justice of the peace wednesday afternoon .
the polygamy charge against blackmore involve 20 individual , while the charge against oler involve only two .
blackmore lead about half the bountiful commune , while oler lead the other half .
last june , oppal hire robertson to investigate whether charge should be lay against the openly polygamist member of the bountiful commune , where older man routinely be marry , legally and common-law , to much younger woman .
oppal instruct b.c. 's criminal justice branch to review the latest development in a ongoing police investigation and reconsider criminal charge , after two previous prosecutor warn such charge could trigger a charter challenge base on freedom of religion .
oppal have state he intention to punish any transgression of law to protect child .
blackmore recently accuse oppal of religious persecution for pursue the police investigation .
warren jeff convict of child sexual assault charge .
publish thursday , august 4 , 2011 5 : 55pm edt .
a texas jury convict polygamist sect leader warren jeff of child sexual assault thursday in a case stem from two young follower he take as bride in what he church call spiritual marriage . '' .
the 55 - year - old head of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint stand stone - face as the verdict be read .
jeff , who act as he own attorney , face up to life in prison .
the jury go immediately into sentence proceedings .
they have deliberate on a verdict for more than three hour .
police have raid the group remote west texa ranch in april 2008 , find woman dress in frontier - style dress and hairdo from the 19th century as well as see underage girl who be clearly pregnant .
the call to a abuse hotline that spur the raid turn out to be a hoax , and more than 400 child who have be place in protective custody be eventually return to they family .
but authority bring charge against several man from the group , with jeff by far the highest - profile defendant .
prosecutor use dna evidence to show jeff father a child with a 15 - year - old girl and play a audio recording of what they say be he sexually assault a 12 - year - old girl .
they also play audio recording in which jeff be hear instruct young woman on how to please he sexually .
jeff have claim he be the victim of religious persecution .
the fld , which have at least 10 , 000 member nationwide , be a radical offshoot of mainstream mormonism .
the church believe polygamy bring exaltation in heaven and that jeff be god spokesman on earth .
jeff stand mute and expressionless , stare at the floor , for all but a few seconds of the half hour he be allot for a closing argument on thursday .
at one point he mumble , i be peace , '' and say no more .
the only noise in the courtroom be the creaking of wooden bench brim with spectator .
prosecutor say the case have nothing to do with he church or he belief .
you have hear the defendant make repeat argument about religious freedom , '' say lead prosecutor eric nichol .
make no mistake , this case be not about any people , this case be not about any religion .
it be about one individual , warren steed jeff , and he action . '' .
prosecutor rely heavily on information find during the raid on the compound and after a traffic stop in nevada in 2006 , when jeff be arrest .
much of the material be discover in a vault at the end of a secret passageway in the temple and another vault in a annex building .
you might have ask yourselve , '' nichol say , a lot of people may ask , why would someone record sex ? ... ... ...
this individual consider himself to be the prophet .
everything he do , hour after hour , he be require to keep a record of that . '' .
on one of the tape play at the trial , jeff make a reference to draw close or be close , '' which authority testify be how church member refer to sex .
two female voice say ok . '' .
a good wife be train for she husband and follow the spirit of peace , '' jeff be hear say .
another audio tape include jeff and the younger girl from a recording make in august 2006 at the texa compound , accord to testimony from nick hanna , a texa ranger involve in the 2008 raid .
play in court , it be difficult to decipher , but jeff and a female voice be hear .
he say , i perform this service in the name of jesus christ , amen , '' then mention the alleged victim by name .
when she say something , he respond , not talk while pray . '' .
several minute of heavy breathing follow .
the jury wear headphone to better hear the recording and also follow a transcript .
one female juror cover she face with she hand as she listen .
jeff represent himself after firing seven attorney in the six month lead to the trial .
he break he courtroom silence with a objection mark by a nearly hourlong speech defend polygamy , and twice threaten the judge and the court with warning of punishment from god .
he refuse to cross - examine the state witness , and delay give a opening statement until he begin present he own defence .
in that statement , he evoke image of the civil rights movement and mention former mormon leader joseph smith jr .
he also ask the jury to remember constitutional guarantee of religious freedom .
the lone defence witness jeff call , church elder jd roundy , spend about 10 minute on the stand thursday discuss fld history after 4 1 / 2 hour of testimony wednesday evening .
jeff fail three time to remove state district judge barbara walther from the case , the last rejection come even without a hearing .
he claim walther be bias because she issue the warrant for the original raid and be frequently update as it progress .
eleven other fld man be charge with crime include sexual assault and bigamy .
all seven of those who have be prosecute be convict , receive prison sentence of between six and 75 year .
rcmp make arrest in bc polygamous community .
police have move in and arrest at least two man from the religious community of bountiful in the bc interior .
bc attorney general wally opal issue a statement today say that two man , winston blackmore and jame oler , have be arrest '' on charge of polygamy pursuant to the criminal code . '' .
opal say the arrest be the product of a seven-month charge assessment review by special prosecutor terrence robertson .
opal point out that this prosecution be independent of both the criminal justice branch and the bc government .
critic have say it would be difficult to pursue polygamy charge against member of bountiful for fear that criminal prosecution could violate they religious freedom .
the polygamist prophet : one step closer to a texa court .
wednesday , sept . 08 , 2010 .
the appearance be brief , perhaps two or three minute , but the presence of warren jeff in a salt lake city area courtroom this week reveal a man who have change in the four year since he arrest .
the man who be once on the fbi most wanted list look thinner , he hair , now close - crop , dust with gray , and he wear a pair of frameless glass that seem to emphasize he most distinctive feature , he wide , compelling eye .
jeff have reportedly suffer from illness bring on by extend period of prayer and fasting .
but the brief courtroom hearing with its mundane talk of calendar and hearing also bring the sometime prophet of a utah - base polygamist sect one step closer to a texa courtroom to face allegation of sexual assault and bigamy - perhaps law enforcement best avenue to keep he behind bar .
jeff and 11 member of he fundamentalist church of the latter day saint -lrb- fld -rrb- be charge in 2008 by texa authority with a variety of felony charge , from bigamy to child abuse , follow a raid on the group yearning for zion ranch in tiny eldorado , texa .
seven of the man have be convict and have receive sentence range from 7 to 75 year ; another go on trial this month .
jerry strickland , a spokesman for texa attorney general greg abbott tell time : whenever warren jeff be bring to texa , we stand ready to try he on felony charge return by a schleicher county grand jury . '' .
-lrb- will texa have better luck with warren jeff ? -rrb- .
jeff defense team effort to fight extradition be a big long shot , '' accord to clifford rosky , a criminal law professor at the university of utah .
he be go to be extradite - it a matter of week , not month , '' rosky say .
on tuesday , jeff refuse to sign the waiver of extradition - a move he legal team have hint would happen after utah gov . gary herbert accept the extradition request by texa gov . rick perry last month .
the wrangle over he extradition will continue at a nov . 15 hearing when it be likely jeff legal team will argue he should remain in utah until charge against he in that state be either drop or reinstate .
-lrb- see a multus - media look at family excommunicate by warren jeff . -rrb- .
in august , the utah supreme court toss out a 2008 conviction in state court that find jeff be a accomplice to rape after he perform a marriage between elissa wall , 14 , and she then 19 - year - old first cousin , allen g . steed .
jeffs remain in utah prison so far , while state government be ask its high court to reconsider its ruling .
prosecutor , however , have be mum on whether they will retry jeff .
we not need he here right now , '' utah assistant attorney general craig barlow say , urge the court to move forward on the texa extradition .
texa prosecutor need only prove the target of they arrest warrant be the real warren jeff and that they charge be base on some reasonable belief that a crime occur .
during the raid on the fld ranch , texa ranger remove numerous box of record and computer .
later , the state assemble a detailed dna map of the 401 child remove by child protective service from the ranch , plus sample from some of they parent who agree to test to reclaim they child .
among the evidence be a 2006 photograph marked anniversary that show jeff kiss a 12 - year - old girl .
the photo , accord to fld detractor depict a abusive underage marriage , while supporter claim it be just a record of a symbolic kiss mark a spiritual marriage aim at strengthen bond between family .
but the photo be likely to be evidence in jeff texa trial , the sort of evidence that elude utah prosecutor .
meanwhile , schleicher county sheriff david doran say he 15 - bed jail be ready for jeff whenever he arrive in the small west texa town of eldorado .
the man who spend three month elude the fbi in 2006 also could be house in nearby san angelo , a city of some 88 , 000 resident compare to el dorado 1 , 800 .
law enforcement continue to view he as flight risk .
tuesday hearing be delay as attorney and prosecutor argue .
prosecutor want he in prison clothes and handcuff , defense attorney argue he should appear unshackled in civilian clothes .
the judge split the baby and jeff appear in a suit , a white shirt that look a little large in the collar , and he hand cuff as if in prayer .
as he appear a dozen male member of the fld community in the courtroom audience stand and smile at they former leader .
he be hold up great .
he be do just fine .
he be very appreciative of the utah supreme court decision .
he be a prayerful man and he feel , and the people who support mr . jeff believe , that they prayer be answer , '' jeff attorney walter f . bugden tell the salt lake tribune .
he be a little thin , he be a little thin .
he could use some fattening up . '' .
polygamous leader arrest in canada , order to surrender passport .
two leader of polygamous group with tie to utah have be arrest in canada , charge with practice polygamy .
one of the wife of former fundamentalist ld church leader winston blackmore confirm he arrest wednesday .
'' it be for polygamy , '' she say , decline to give she name but tell the deseret news she be one of blackmore 's wife .
she also say fld bishop jim oler be also arrest .
the criminal charge be file tuesday in creston , british columbia .
in canada , polygamy be illegal .
the royal canadian mount police say they begin they investigation in 2005 and revisit it earlier this year after a special prosecutor recommend charge .
the prosecutor recommend polygamy and sexual exploitation charge but british columbia attorney general wally oppal opt to only pursue polygamy charge , note that blackmore have 20 wife and oler have two .
'' the defendant should raise any constitutional issue , '' oppal say , in response to question about polygamist ' religious freedom claim .
oppal deny that the prosecution be political , despite the former attorney general for british columbia and several special prosecutor decline to pursue charge against anyone in the fundamentalist enclave of bountiful .
both blackmore and oler be to be release from rcmp custody late wednesday pend a future court appearance .
they be order by a judge to surrender they passport , check in with rcmp authority , not leave british columbia and perform no '' celestial marriage , '' say rcmp sgt. tim shield .
a spokesman for the fld church do not immediately return a call seek comment .
news of the charge stun many .
'' i be shocked .
i really am , '' say mary batchelor , the director of the utah-based pro-polygamy group principle voice .
'' i be amaze they be actually do that . '' .
batchelor say she have be in contact with some of blackmore 's wife , whom she say be understandably upset .
blackmore be a bishop in the utah-based fld church until he be excommunicate in 2002 .
the fundamentalist who live in bountiful , british columbia , split with some follow blackmore and other remain in the fld church lead by warren jeff .
oler be a bishop in bountiful , the fld enclave there .
the attorney general of british columbia have be probe the polygamous community on allegation of sex abuse , human trafficking and force marriage .
several special prosecutor be appoint to give opinion on prosecute polygamy law in canada .
in a e-mail to the deseret news in 2006 , blackmore acknowledge be the subject of a canadian police inquiry .
'' since we be not hide we be not hard to find , '' he write .
'' it be hard to think that canada , the home of free lover and legalize same-sex marriage , not to mention legal wife-swapping club , could waste they time on people who live like we do . '' .
the strange legal trip of polygamist warren jeff .
saturday , june 12 , 2010 .
five year ago , warren jeff be charge with sex crime result from the polygamous marriage he arrange for he follower in the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint -lrb- fld -rrb- .
jeffs then begin a circular journey through the jailhouse and courtroom of the west .
this week , the self - style prophet awake to the promise of a change of scenery - but not a change of fortune .
a arizona judge dismiss the original charge against jeff , the very charge that have catapult he into national headline .
but the dismissal have only clear the way for texa authority to get they hand on he to face even more serious charge .
extradition proceedings against warren jeff have commence , '' lauri saathoff , a spokesperson for texa attorney general greg abbott tell time .
jeff have already spend more time in a arizona county jail cell than he would have spend in prison if find guilty of the original charge : arrange and perform marriage between two underage girl and they older male relative , thus be a accomplice to sexual misconduct with minor .
the prosecutor in the case say the two victim no longer want to pursue the charge , make a prosecution impractical .
jeff attorney , mike picarretta , hint at irregularity and say the case would have be drop year ago have they involve someone less well - known than he client .
but he do face imminent release .
arizona have put its charge on hold while jeff be prosecute in utah on similar charge .
in september 2007 a utah jury find he guilty of two count of be a accomplice to rape by perform a marriage involve a underage girl .
he be give two five - year - to - life term , move to utah state prison and then back to arizona to await trial on the charge in that state .
now texa want he .
state official be not reveal when jeff , 54 , will be move , but mohave county sheriff tom sheahan be under arizona court order to act speedily .
the sheriff say he hope jeff will be out of he jail by this week end .
he be a problem inmate since we have he , '' sheahan tell the san angelo -lrb- texa -rrb- standard - time .
mr . jeff be a handful from day one with he self - inflict hunger strike . '' .
jeff serve as president and prophet of the fundamentalist church of the jesus christ of the latter day saint after he father , rulon jeff , die in 2002 .
in june 2005 , day after be indict in arizona on the charge of be a accomplice to sexual conduct with a minor , jeff flee the colorado city , arizona , area , home to a large fld community .
a warrant be issue for he arrest and he be place on the fbi 10 most wanted list .
fourteen month later , he be arrest outside las vegas , nevada , and begin he journey from court to court and jail to jail .
jeff defender claim he be a victim of religious persecution .
he have spend much of he time in jail talk about he faith , fasting and pray .
tall , slender , with a wide - eyed gaze that seem to compel allegiance among he fld follower , jeff be a calm presence in court , but he life behind bar have be more tumultuous .
ill from fasting , he knee bleed and sore from prolonged prayer session , he have be hospitalize and force - feed several time .
he have also be inconsistently penitent .
i be one of the most wicked man on the face of the earth since the day of father adam , '' jeff can be hear say on a tape record by authority at the purgatory jail in st . george , utah .
still , jeff attorney be pledge to fight extradition and also have a appeal of the utah case pend before the state supreme court .
they also may seek a new trial base on recently uncover evidence - now under investigation by the utah attorney general office - that some medical record in the trial may not have be original document , but reconstruct one .
jeff legal team say the utah case must be resolve before they client be move to texa .
the ordeal also have be difficult for he alleged victim , say roger hoole , a attorney for elissa wall and susie barlow , former fld member and child bride .
they have be revile .
they be hate and they have be scapegoat in the fld community , hoole tell time .
the fld community in northern arizona and southern utah have strong , deep root to the region go back to the mid - 19th century .
many family bear the same name - evidence of generation of intermarriage - and former fld member say communal wealth be use by the leadership to maintain power and punish .
witness have refuse to testify in the case against jeff .
texa prosecutor have sidestep that problem by use genetic evidence and extensive church document seize during a april , 2008 raid at the fld yearning for zion ranch in west texa .
jeff be indict in july , 2008 , by a schleicher county grand jury in eldorado , texa , home to the yfz ranch .
the state authority remove more than 400 child from the ranch , plus box of evidence , some of which purport to show jeff kiss child bride .
he be face charge of aggravate sexual assault , sexual assault and bigamy charge which could result in at least one life sentence .
if extradite , he will join 12 other fld defendant charge with similar offens .
in a steady march begin last october , five fld member have be convict of felony and receive sentence range from seven to 75 year .
a sixth trial be just get under way in the small eldorado courthouse and six more man await trail - seven if jeff find himself in a west texa jail .
2 polygamous leader arrest in canada .
the leader of a polygamous communtity in western canada who have admit have numerous wife and dozen of child be arrest wednesday and charge with practice polygamy , accord to court document and local official .
winston blackmore , long know as the bishop of bountiful , run a independent sect of about 400 in bountiful , british columbia .
blackmore once run the canadian arm of the utah-based fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint , but be eject from the sect in 2003 by its leader , warren jeff .
last june , british columbia attorney general wally oppal appoint a special prosecutor to look into allegation of criminal abuse at bountiful , despite two earlier legal opinion that say it would be difficult to proceed with criminal charge for polygamy itself .
blackmore openly admit to have numerous wife and dozen of child but have say the community abhor sexual abuse of child .
accord to a court document file in nearby creston , winston blackmore be face a charge of practice polygamy .
official at the mormon hill school in the community , where blackmore be the superintendent , say he be arrest wednesday .
warren jeff arraign in texa on sex charge .
update 12 / 2 / 2010 1 : 31 be .
polygamist sect leader warren jeff be quietly extradite from utah to texa , where he be arraign wednesday to face trial on bigamy and sexual assault charge .
jeff , who be indict more than two year ago , appear during a brief hearing in san angelo wear glass , orange jail pants and a gray sweat shirt , texa attorney general office spokesman jerry strickland say .
the 54 - year - old jeff be not ask to enter a plea and speak only to tell he judge that he need more time to find a lawyer , strickland say .
texa authority have charge the ecclesiastical head of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter day saint with felony bigamy , aggravate sexual assault and assault .
prosecutor plan to try the charge separately , with the first trial schedule to begin jan . 24 .
the charge stem from the 2008 raid of the yearning for zion ranch in eldorado , where authority seize more than 400 child and place they in state custody on suspicion that the girl be be sexually abused and the boy be be raise to be sexual predator .
most of the child be eventually return to they family , but several man in the sect who see jeff as they spiritual leader be charge with child sexual assault and abuse .
on wednesday , jeff be in the same courtroom where several member of he church be convict .
he be bring to texa a day earlier from utah , where he be convict in a case stem from the marriage of a underage girl to she cousin .
that conviction be overturn in 2007 .
a phone message leave with jeff attorney in utah be not return wednesday .
willie jessop , a spokesman for the church , decline immediate comment .
jeff be be hold without bond at a jail outside san angelo in west texa .
during the hearing , district judge barbara walther read jeff the indictment and ask if he understand the charge .
he decline to sign a scheduling order that lay out the date of he court appearance , strickland say .
strickland call the jail choice a issue of security . '' .
he do not elaborate , but note that prosecutor be not approach the case differently because of jeff high profile .
when you have sexual assault of a child , it do matter who you be , '' strickland say .
utah department of correction spokesman steve gehrke say wednesday that prison official transport jeff to the salt lake city airport tuesday and turn he over to texa law enforcement .
a texas ranger and a officer from the attorney general office go to utah to pick up jeff and fly with he back to texa , strickland say .
jeff defense attorney in utah have oppose the extradition , argue that send jeff to texa before a long - run criminal case in utah be resolve would deny he the right to a speedy trial .
but the utah supreme court rule nov . 23 that it would not block the transfer .
jeff have be hold at the utah state prison since he arrest , and eventual conviction , on two charge of rape as a accomplice for he role in the 2001 marriage of a underage follower - then 14 - to she 19 - year - old cousin .
in july , the utah supreme overturn the 2007 conviction .
prosecutor there have yet to decide whether they retry jeff .
6 . 1 - magnitude quake strike indonesia aceh province in region hit by 2004 tsunami .
july 03 , 2013 6 : 22am .
a earthquake kill six child and leave 14 other trap when a mosque collapse during a koran reading session in indonesia aceh province , bring the confirm death toll from the disaster to 11 .
the strong 6 . 1 - magnitude quake leave hundred more injure as it rock a region that be devastate by the quake - trigger tsunami of 2004 .
the earthquake reduce house in part of aceh to rubble , set off several landslide and badly damage road .
rescuer be struggle to find the child still trap after the mosque collapse in blang mancung village , central aceh district .
we search and rescue team be struggle to evacuate a estimate 14 child still trap under the rubble , '' say subhan sahara , the head of the local disaster management agency .
i hope they can be find alive but the chance be very slim , '' he add , explain they be read the koran together when the quake strike .
the quake , which hit at a shallow depth of just 10 kilometre , injure more than 200 people and damage more than 300 house in aceh , say national disaster agency spokesman sutopo purwo nugroho .
as police and military personnel struggle to reach affected area late tuesday , there be two aftershock of more than 5 . 0 magnitude .
in a village in bener meriah district , one man be kill when a landslide engulf a coffee plantation , say disaster agency official fauzus .
a man be work at a coffee plantation with he wife when a landslide cause by the quake strike .
he body be find under a pile of earth soon afterwards , '' he say , add that he wife and another woman be miss at the site .
another four people die in hospital in the district from injury sustain in the quake , he say .
one of the fatality be a child who die when a wall collapse , say ema suryanus , a doctor at a health clinic in lampahan city in the district .
we have receive around 50 people with injury sustain when the wall of they house collapse , '' add the doctor .
there be around 30 people seriously injured , some with head injury .
the rest have only light injury like minor cut and graze . '' .
injured people have be transport from several affected village in two truck , she say .
people run outside in banda aceh as the quake shake house , and in medan city to the south of the province on sumatra island .
the quake be feel strongly for around 15 seconds , from bener meriah to banda aceh .
people panic and rush out of they home , '' say national disaster agency spokesman nugroho .
aceh , on the northern tip of sumatra , be regularly hit by quake .
in 2004 a massive tremor spark a tsunami that kill 170 , 000 people in the province and ten of thousand more in country around the indian ocean .
in april last year a 8 . 6 - magnitude quake strike 431 kilometre off banda aceh , prompt a indian ocean - wide tsunami alert .
five people die and seven be injure in aceh in the quake and follow aftershock .
in september 2009 a major earthquake near padang city on sumatra kill more than 1000 people .
indonesia sit on the pacific ring of fire where tectonic plate collide , cause frequent seismic and volcanic activity .
6 . 1 - magnitude quake strike indonesia aceh : usg .
a powerful 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake strike the indonesian province of aceh with no tsunami warn issue .
afp , tuesday 2 jul 2013 .
a strong 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake strike the northwestern indonesian province of aceh on tuesday , the we geological survey say , send people run into the street in panic .
there be no immediate report of damage after the quake strike inland at a depth of just 10 kilometre -lrb- 6 . 2 mile -rrb- , 55 kilometre south of bireun and 72 kilometre southeast of reuleuet , say the usg .
people run out of building in panic in the provincial capital banda aceh as the quake shake house for around one minute , a afp journalist at the scene say .
but the usg estimate there be a low likelihood of casualty or damage .
a massive quake strike off aceh in 2004 , spark a tsunami that kill 170 , 000 people in the province on sumatra and ten of thousand more in country around the indian ocean .
indonesia sit on the pacific ring of fire where continental plate collide , cause frequent seismic and volcanic activity .
earthquake of magnitude 6 . 1 strike indonesia aceh province kill one .
on july 02 2013 7 : 41 be .
a magnitude - 6 . 1 earthquake strike indonesia aceh province on tuesday at 07 : 37 a . m . utc -lrb- 3 : 37 a . m . edt -rrb- , kill at least one and leave two other miss , the associated press report .
the epicenter of the quake , which originate six mile beneath the surface , be located 34 mile west of the town of bireun , near the western coast of sumatra island , accord to the u . s . geological survey .
no tsunami warning be issue follow the quake , which injure dozen and damage several house in takengon , the capital of central aceh district , ap report .
people run out of they home when the quake hit , ap report , cite resident of bukit sama village in central aceh district , where the quake have lead to a power outage .
i see many house be damage and they roof fall onto some people , '' a bukit sama village resident tell ap .
many people be injure but it be difficult to evacuate they due to traffic jam . '' .
indonesia be prone to seismic activity , due to its location on the pacific basin ring of fire , '' a 25 , 000 - mile - long stretch where earthquake be common , although only a small percentage be strong enough to be feel .
the 2004 tsunami that kill about 230 , 000 people across asia be trigger by a massive 9 . 1 - magnitude quake off aceh .
indonesia , july 2 , 2013 .
update : july 2 , 2013 15 : 01 ist .
strong earthquake hit indonesia aceh province .
a strong earthquake strike off indonesia aceh province on tuesday , damaging house and injure at least five people .
the u . s . geological survey say the magnitude 6 . 1 quake strike at a depth of 10 kilometer -lrb- 6 mile -rrb- and its epicenter be located 55 kilometer -lrb- 34 mile -rrb- west of the town of bireun on the western tip of sumatra island .
at least five people be reportedly injure and 10 house be damage in takengon , the capital of central aceh district , say sutopo purwo nugroho of the national disaster mitigation agency .
i see many house be damages and they roof fall onto some people , '' say bensu elianita , a 22 year - old resident in bukit sama village in central aceh district .
many people be injure but it be difficult to evacuate they due to traffic jam . '' .
she say many people in the village run out from they house in panic and scream for help .
at least two house be totally flatten , she say , add that the quake also cause blackout in the village .
indonesia be prone to seismic upheaval due to its location on the pacific ring of fire , a arc of volcano and fault line encircle the pacific ocean .
in 2004 , a huge earthquake off aceh trigger a tsunami that kill 230 , 000 people across asia .
magnitude - 6 . 1 quake hit indonesia ; 1 dead .
tuesday , july 2 , 2013 .
a strong earthquake strike indonesia aceh province on tuesday , kill at least one person and leave two other miss .
many house be damage and dozen of villager be injure .
the magnitude - 6 . 1 quake strike at a depth of just 10 kilometer -lrb- six mile -rrb- and its epicenter be located 55 kilometer -lrb- 34 mile -rrb- west of the town of bireun on the western tip of sumatra island , the we geological survey say .
the worst - hit area be the district of bener meriah , where the quake cause a landslide that kill a man and leave he wife and a young boy miss , say fauzi , a official of the local disaster agency .
dozen of people be injure and be be treat at three hospital , '' say fauzus , who like many indonesian use a single name .
he say at least 22 house be badly damage in the district .
at least five people be reportedly injure and 10 house be damage in takengon , the capital of central aceh district , say sutopo purwo nugroho of the national disaster mitigation agency .
i see many house be damage and they roof fall onto some people , '' say bensu elianita , a 22 - year - old resident in bukit sama village in central aceh district .
many people be injure , but it be difficult to evacuate they due to traffic jam . '' .
she say people in the village run out from they house in panic and scream for help .
at least two home be totally flatten , she say , add that the quake also cause a blackout in the village .
the quake also cause panic among official attend a meeting of the asia pacific economic cooperation in medan , the capital of neighbor north sumatra province .
the official be escort from the second - floor meeting room by security officer .
indonesia be prone to seismic upheaval due to its location on the pacific ring of fire , a arc of volcano and fault line encircle the pacific ocean .
in 2004 , a huge earthquake off aceh trigger a tsunami that kill 230 , 000 people across asia .
indonesia 's west papua province be hit by a magnitude 6.1 earthquake today , the latest powerful tremor to shake the region where five people be kill and hundred injure at the weekend when building be destroy .
the quake strike off the coast at 7:48 a.m. local time , 75 kilometer -lrb- 50 mile -rrb- west of the region 's main city of manokwari , the u.s. geological survey say in a alert .
there be no immediate report of damage or casualty and no tsunami alert be issue .
a unite nation assessment team be dispatch to the province after two quake , measure 7.6 and 7.4 , strike west of manokwari jan. 4 .
at least five people be kill , 250 other injured and more than 800 home destroy by those temblor , accord to the un .
about 14,000 people flee they home at the weekend after a local tsunami warning be issue , the un say on its web site .
the indonesian government have transport relief supplies , include food , medicine , tarpaulin , generator and water purification equipment to the affect area .
two three-story hotel in manokwari , a city of 160,000 people , collapse in the jan. 4 quake and building be also damage in the town of sorong , accord to the world health organization .
manokwari 's rendai airport be also temporarily close on security and safety concern , the who say .
indonesia lie in a zone where the indo-australian , eurasian , philippine and pacific plate meet and occasionally shift , cause earthquake and sometimes generate tsunami .
there have be hundred of earthquake in indonesia since a 9.1 temblor in 2004 cause a tsunami that sweep across the indian ocean , devastate coastal community and leave more than 220,000 people dead in indonesia , sri lanka , india , thailand and other country .
five dead , dozen injure in indonesia quake .
tuesday , july 2nd , 2013 .
a powerful earthquake in indonesia aceh province flatten building and spark landslide tuesday , kill at least five people and injure dozen in a region devastate by the quake - trigger tsunami of 2004 .
the 6 . 1 - magnitude quake strike inland at a depth of just 10 kilometer in the mountainous bener meriah district in the heart of aceh , the we geological survey say .
it destroy house in the district , some 320 kilometer from the provincial capital banda aceh , and trigger several landslide .
police and troops be deploy to lead rescue effort , as picture show the wall of house reduce to rubble and road badly damage and block by landslip .
five people have so far be confirm dead in the quake , fauzi , a official from the local disaster agency , tell afp late tuesday .
in suka makmur village a landslide engulf a coffee plantation , kill one man , say the official who use one name .
a man be work at a coffee plantation with he wife when a landslide cause by the quake strike , '' he say .
he body be find under a pile of earth soon afterwards , '' he say , add that he wife and another woman be miss at the site .
four other people die in hospital in the district from injury sustain in the quake , he say .
one of the fatality be a child who die when a wall collapse , ema suryani , a doctor at a health clinic in lampahan city in the district , tell afp .
we have receive around 50 people with injury sustain when the wall of they house collapse , '' add the doctor .
there be around 30 people seriously injured , some with head injury .
the rest have only light injury like minor cut and graze . '' .
injured people have be transport from several affected village in two truck , she say .
around 40 house be damage by the quake , include some which be flatten , say disaster agency official fauzus .
most of the damaged house be in the wih pesam area of the district , he add .
people run outside in panic in banda aceh as the quake shake house , and in medan city to the south of the province on sumatra island .
the quake be feel strongly for around 15 seconds , from bener meriah to banda aceh .
people panic and rush out of they home , '' national disaster agency spokesman sutopo purwo nugroho say .
aceh , on the northern tip of sumatra , be regularly hit by quake .
in 2004 a massive tremor spark a tsunami that kill 170 , 000 people in the province and ten of thousand more in country around the indian ocean .
in april last year a 8 . 6 - magnitude quake strike 431 kilometre off banda aceh , prompt a indian ocean - wide tsunami alert .
five people die and seven be injure in aceh in the quake and follow aftershock .
in september 2009 a major earthquake near padang city on sumatra kill more than 1 , 000 people .
indonesia sit on the pacific ring of fire where tectonic plate collide , cause frequent seismic and volcanic activity .
a strong earthquake rattle indonesia 's west papua province wednesday just day after a powerful quake level building and kill one person , the united state geological survey say .
the 6.1-magnitude quake be the latest in a series of dozen of powerful tremor to have hit the region since 7.6 and 7.5 magnitude quake that strike off the provincial capital manokwari on sunday .
wednesday 's shallow quake hit at 7 : 48 be -lrb- 2248 gmt tuesday -rrb- just off the coast , some 75 kilometre -lrb- 50 mile -rrb- west of manokwari .
official have be put on alert to deal with more devastation to the area -- where thousand of people have be live in tent since sunday 's quake -- but no damage or injury have be report , provincial disaster chief rahimin kacong be quote by afp as say .
the quake be accompany by smaller quake with a magnitude over 5.0 off kupang in east nusa tenggara province and ternate in north maluku province , indonesia 's seismological agency say .
around 14,000 people flood into camp on high ground in the aftermath of sunday 's quake fear deadly wave after authority issue and then withdraw a tsunami alert .
many refugee have return home but some remain too fearful to go back kacong say .
'' we already tell people to return to they house follow the meteorological office report say that the frequency of aftershock have reduce , '' he say .
hundred of government and private building have be damage by the sunday quake , as well as seven bridge , two of which have collapse .
the tremor have re-awaken bitter memory of similar deadly quake that hit manokwari in 2002 , as well as the asian tsunami that kill 168,000 people in indonesia 's aceh province and nia island in 2004 .
6 . 1 - magnitude quake strike indonesia aceh province .
tue jul 2 , 2013 1 : 28pm gmt .
a powerful 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake strike the northern indonesian province of aceh , kill at least three people and injure dozen more across the affect region .
accord to the we geological survey , the quake hit at a depth of 10 kilometer -lrb- 6 mile -rrb- in the northern province of aceh .
the epicenter be situate 55 kilometer -lrb- 34 mile -rrb- west of the town of bireun on the western tip of sumatra island .
eyewitness and local resident say many home and property have collapse or be damage .
i see many house be damage and they roof fall onto some people , '' say bensu elianita , a 22 year - old resident in bukit sama village in central aceh district , add , many people be injure but it be difficult to evacuate they due to traffic jam . '' .
on april 20 , a 6 . 4 - magnitude earthquake jolt indonesia maluku , but cause no casualty or material damage .
on april 6 , a earthquake measure 7 . 2 on the richter scale strike eastern indonesia mountainous west papua province .
indonesia be vulnerable to earthquake since it be located on the pacific ring of fire , a region know for its seismic and volcanic activity cause by friction between shift tectonic plate .
last year , a 6 . 4 - magnitude quake rock the west coast of sumatra island , kill at least one person .
a 8 . 7 - magnitude earthquake also hit off the city of banda aceh in sumatra island in may 2012 , trigger regional tsunami alert .
a strong quake off the shore of indonesia trigger a tsunami that kill 230 , 000 people in 13 country around the indian ocean in 2004 .
thousand of frightened resident flood makeshift refugee camp in indonesia 's west papua province today after two powerful earthquake flatten building and kill at least one person .
resident camp out in yard and street outside they home , and there be some 14,000 refugee across the province , many of whom have flee to higher ground , official say .
'' for the time be there be 14,000 refugee , '' governor abraham atururi say , add that 17 camp have be set up for the displaced in the provincial capital manokwari .
as aid start to arrive , hundred of aftershock continue to rattle the coastal city which be hit by the 7.6 and 7.5 magnitude quake early on sunday , cut power and prompt a brief tsunami warning .
atururi say a 10-year-old girl be kill and at least 40 people be injure in the earthquake , which rekindle bitter memory of similar deadly quake that hit the town in 2002 .
hundred of government and private building be damage in the quake , as well as seven bridge , two of which collapse , he say .
four central government minister arrive by plane bring 1.5 billion rupiah -lrb- $ a195 -rrb- in aid and to survey the damage , official say .
two tonne of medicine be also fly in by the health ministry to manokwari 's airport .
in manokwari , many resident be camp outside they home , but thousand from low-lying area refuse to leave camp on higher ground out of fear of a tsunami .
'' i be half-dead in my tent .
i want to go home but i be scared of a tsunami , '' say fisherman 's wife mapahai , 35 , who flee with she husband and six child .
'' two of my child be sick , i be also sick .
we have not receive any medicine yet , '' she say .
indonesia 's meteorology and geophysics agency -lrb- bmg -rrb- say papua have be hit by 842 aftershock over a period of 29 hour after the first quake , include 54 aftershock stronger than five on the richter scale .
'' it keep on shake , '' papua bmg spokesman mujahidin say .
some 168,000 people be kill in indonesia 's aceh province and nia island by the 2004 asian tsunami , make it the worst hit country .
indonesia earthquake : 24 dead and over 200 injure as 6 . 1 magnitude quake hit aceh province .
wednesday 03 july 2013 .
soldier and police be lead rescue operation in indonesia after a 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake hit aceh province leave 24 dead and over 200 injure .
the quake strike yesterday afternoon at a depth of just six mile and be centre on the far western tip of sumatra island in aceh province .
twelve people be kill and 70 other be injure by a landslide or collapse building in bener meriah district , say sutopo purwo nugroho of the national disaster mitigation agency .
in neighbouring central aceh district , 10 people be kill , 140 be injure and about 1 , 500 house and building be damage , nugroho say .
the quake also trigger landslide and cause hundred of people to be evacuate to 10 temporary shelter .
another two people be also report to have be kill , although it have not be state where .
nugroho tell agence - france presse : we have record 24 people dead and 249 people injure , add that more than 300 building have be damage in the quake .
rescuer and other assistance team have arrive in bener meriah , while the air force have dispatch a helicopter and a cn - 235 aircraft to the region , nugroho say .
we be now concentrate on search for people who may be trap under the rubble , '' say rusli m . saleh , the deputy district chief of bener meriah .
he say at least 25 of the injure in he district be hospitalise in intensive care .
as the quake hit , villager in the area run out of they home in panic and scream for help .
i see many house be damage and they roof fall onto some people , '' bensu elianita , a 22 - year - old resident of bukit sama village in central aceh district , say shortly after the quake hit .
many people be injure , but it be difficult to evacuate they due to traffic jam . '' .
the quake also cause concern among official attend a meeting of the asia pacific economic cooperation forum in medan , the capital of neighbor north sumatra province .
they be escort from the second - floor meeting room by security officer .
indonesia be prone to seismic upheaval due to its location on the pacific ring of fire , a arc of volcano and fault line encircle the pacific ocean .
in 2004 , a magnitude - 9 . 1 earthquake off aceh trigger a tsunami that kill 230 , 000 people in 14 country .
a series of powerful earthquake have shake indonesia 's remote eastern province of papua , briefly triggering fear of a tsunami , official have say .
a young girl be kill and dozen of other be seriously injure in the quake , which also send small tsunami into japan 's southeastern coast .
panic resident flee to higher ground as the first earthquake measure 7.6 magnitude strike on sunday about 135 kilometer from the main city of manokwari , accord to the we geological survey .
power supplies be cut and commercial flight be cancel after crack appear on the runway of the city 's airport .
hengky tewu , a hospital director , say a 10-year-old girl be kill at home when a wall collapse and crush she head .
at least 50 people be hospitalise for broken bone and head wound while 300 other be give outpatient treatment , henri sembire a local health official , say .
one of the tremor with a 7.3 magnitude be feel 1,300 kilometer away in northern australium , but no damage be report .
indonesia 's national disaster coordination agency say about 135 home and other building be badly damage or topple in the quake .
resident in manokwari - a jumble of low-lying brick and cement structure home to 167,000 people - remain wary of aftershock , with many stay outdoors in case fresh tremor cause more building to collapse .
the indonesian health ministry and world vision indonesia , a relief agency , have say they will be send in aid team and emergency kit include can food , blanket and basic medical supplies .
papua , located about 2,955 kilometer east of the country 's capital , jakarta , be among the nation 's least develop area .
in december 2004 , a massive undersea quake off the western indonesian province of aceh trigger a giant tsunami that leave at least 230,000 people dead and miss in a dozen country face the indian ocean .
indonesia straddle a chain of fault line and volcano know as the pacific '' ring of fire '' and be prone to seismic activity .
dozen injure , child dead as 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake hit indonesia aceh .
update : july 02 , 2013 15 : 50 ist .
a 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake which hit the indonesian province of aceh on tuesday kill a child , injure dozen and destroy building , spark panic in a region devastate by the quake - trigger tsunami of 2004 .
the quake strike inland at 0737 gmt at a depth of just 10 kilometre -lrb- 6 . 2 mile -rrb- in the mountainous bener meriah district in the heart of aceh , the we geological survey say .
house collapse in the district , some 320 kilometre -lrb- 200 mile -rrb- from the provincial capital banda aceh .
a child die when a wall collapse , '' ema suryani , a doctor at a health clinic in lampahan city , tell afp .
we have receive around 50 people with injury suffer when the wall of they house collapse , '' add the doctor .
there be around 30 people seriously injured , some with head injury .
the rest have only light injury like minor cut and graze . '' .
injured people have be transport from several affected village in two truck , she say .
people run outside in panic in banda aceh as the quake shake house , and in medan city to the south of aceh province on sumatra island .
the quake be feel strongly for around 15 seconds , from bener meriah to banda aceh .
people panic and rush out of they home , '' national disaster agency spokesman sutopo purwo nugroho say .
aceh , on the northern tip of sumatra , be regularly hit by quake .
in 2004 a massive tremor spark a tsunami that kill 170 , 000 people in the province and ten of thousand more in country around the indian ocean .
in april last year a 8 . 6 - magnitude quake strike 431 kilometre off banda aceh , prompt a indian ocean - wide tsunami alert .
five people die and seven be injure in aceh in the quake and follow aftershock .
in september 2009 , a major earthquake near padang city on sumatra kill more than 1 , 000 people .
indonesia sit on the pacific ring of fire where tectonic plate collide , cause frequent seismic and volcanic activity .
the powerful quake in papua in easternmost of indonesia on sunday have lead over 14,000 people take shelter in tent , destroy hundred of building , kill one person and injured dozen other , local disaster management agency say on monday .
head of the agency captain manrosan , who go with a single name like many indonesian , tell xinhua by phone from manokwari of papua 's main city that eight people have suffer from serious injury and 261 other get minor injury .
manrosan say that the 7.7 magnitude quake damage 42 government office building , 2 road , 14 hotel , over 1,600 house , 40 religious building include church and mosque , 8 bridge , and 4 school building .
'' up to the midday monday , the latest datum of the fatality be only one person , '' he say , rule out speculation about the rumor of several death .
the manokwari hospital say that most of those seriously wound now be treat at a emergency unit at the hospital .
'' most of they have break bone , cause by the smash of the debris of the building , '' doctor sokal pirg of the unit tell xinhua by phone from the hospital .
evacuee still live in tent and relative ' house which be at higher grounds and far from sea for fear of possible tsunami , say manrosan .
the quake have totally stop electricity supply at the city , but now some of they have resume , say manrosan .
the quake , with epicenter be about 85 mile -lrb- 135 kilometer -rrb- from manokwari and occur at a depth of 22 mile -lrb- 35 kilometer -rrb- , be follow by tremor , trigger fear among the displaced person to return home .
'' we be still scare of further strong quake , '' say nora nursita , a resident at manokwari , over phone .
aid for the victim have be deliver from the local administration and jakarta , say manrosan .
up to monday , tremor keep shake papua , particularly manokwari city which be home by over 170,000 people .
indonesian have recently launch a early tsunami warning system across the country to prevent a repeat of the 2004 's massive death cause by tsunami .
the catastrophe four year ago devastate indian ocean community and kill more than 230,000 people , over 170,000 of they in aceh at northern tip of sumatra island of indonesia .
indonesia , with over 230 million population and 17,000 island , sit at a vulnerable zone so call '' the pacific ring of fire '' where two continental plate , stretch from the western hemisphere through japan and southeast asia , meet that cause frequent volcanic movement .
dozen injure as 6 . 1 - magnitude quake hit indonesia aceh .
tue jul 02 2013 , 14 : 58 hr .
a strong 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake strike indonesia northwestern province of aceh today , cause building to collapse and injure at least 50 people .
the quake hit inland at 0737 gmt at a depth of just 10 kilometre , 55 kilometre south of bireun and 72 kilometre southeast of reuleuet , the we geological survey say .
we have receive around 50 people with injury suffer when the wall of they house collapse , '' ema suryani , a doctor at a health clinic in lampahan city , bener meriah district , tell afp .
the injury vary from open wound to broken bone . '' .
injured people have be transport from several affected village in two truck , she say .
people also run out of building in panic in the provincial capital banda aceh as the quake shake house for around one minute , a afp journalist at the scene say .
a massive quake strike off aceh in 2004 , spark a tsunami that kill 170 , 000 people in the province on sumatra and ten of thousand more in country around the indian ocean .
indonesia sit on the pacific ring of fire where continental plate collide , cause frequent seismic and volcanic activity .
a series of powerful earthquake rock manokwari , the capital of west papua , on sunday , kill four people , injure dozen and destroy hundred of building .
one 7.3-magnitude tremor be feel as far away as australia and send small tsunami into japan 's southeastern coast , the associated press report .
the first quake , magnitude 7.6 , strike at 4:43 a.m. local time about 135 kilometer from manokwari at a depth of 35 kilometer , the u.s. geological survey say .
dozen of aftershock follow .
at least four people die in papua , where the runway of the airport nearest the epicenter be split by the force , president susilo bambang yudhoyono tell reporter .
'' i have instruct emergency step be take to help we brother and to restore power and other vital utility , '' yudhoyono say .
among the dead be a 10-year-old girl , identify as yolanda mandofi , whose head be crush , say local hospital director hengky tewu .
'' we ambulance be pick up two more , '' he say .
another 19 patient at the hospital be treat for broken bone , cut , crush wound and other injury .
papua police chief maj. gen. bagus ekodanto say he have receive report that a hotel and a rice warehouse have be '' destroy '' , but he do not know if anyone have be kill in the incidence .
a search for victim be under way .
several story of the mutiara hotel in the main city manokwari collapse , say ina , a nurse at a navy hospital , add that she have already treat 20 quake victim .
the quake also reportedly damage the kalidingin hotel .
electricity be cut off to the coastal city of population 167,000 , where people flee they home in the dark fear a tsunami , say hasim rumatiga , a local health official .
the quake force thousand of people to take refuge , include in military field in the city , say manokwari military commander col. inf irham waroiham .
about 1,000 resident have take shelter in a military field , 500 in a navy field , 500 in the yard of the manokwari regent office and 7,000 other in masnus district , which lie just outside of manokwari city .
the meteorology and geophysics agency have issue a tsunami alert , but it be revoke within a hour after it be determine the epicenter of the main quake have be within the mainland .
quake center well within the mainland do not pose the threat of a tsunami to indonesia , but can still spread large wave to neighbor country , such as japan .
japan 's meteorological agency say tsunamis 10 to 40 centimeter in height sweep into town along the coast .
the quake be also feel in sorong regency .
the regency police spokesman snr comr agus rianto tell the jakarta post the quake have damage 18 house , injure 11 resident .
the latest quake in manokwari occur on oct. 10 , 2002 , the largest record at magnitude 7.6 , kill three people .
another strong quake hit in 1996 , trigger enormous wave that hammer into the north coastal area of papua , as well as sorong , biak and manokwari .
3 july 2013 last update at 13 : 38 gmt .
indonesia aceh rescue operation after deadly earthquake .
rescue operation be under way after a 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake hit indonesia aceh province , flatten house and cause landslide .
official say at least 24 people be kill and more than 200 injure by the quake , which strike the western tip of sumatra island on tuesday .
one report say six child be kill and 14 trap under debris when a mosque collapse in central aceh .
indonesia be located on one of the most seismically active region on earth .
we have record 24 people dead and 249 people injure , '' disaster agency spokesman sutopo purwo nugroho tell agence - france presse -lrb- afp -rrb- news agency .
he add that more than 300 building have be damage in the quake .
power cut .
soldier and police have be deploy in rescue operation , but have struggle to access some area where road be block by landslide , official say .
the indonesian air force deploy a helicopter and a plane as part of the rescue effort .
official say that the quake be feel for around 15 seconds , from banda aceh , the regional capital , to bener meriah , one of the worst - hit area .
in bener meriah , about 300 people sleep outdoors on tuesday night as the area be hit by strong aftershock and people be afraid to return to they home , a local official tell afp .
we have a power outage now and communication be unreliable , '' he add .
in 2004 , a magnitude 9 . 1 quake off indonesia trigger a tsunami that kill some 230 , 000 people around the indian ocean .
indonesia be prone to earthquake due to its location on the pacific ring of fire , a arc of volcano and fault line encircle the pacific basin .
a series of earthquake kill a 10-year-old girl and injured dozen sunday in remote eastern indonesia and briefly trigger fear of another tsunami in a country still recover from such a disaster in 2004 .
one of the quake -- a 7.3-magnitude tremor -- be feel as far away as australia and send small tsunami into japan 's southeastern coast .
resident near the epicenter in papua province rush from they home in search of higher ground shortly after the first 7.6-magnitude quake strike , afraid that huge wave might wash over the island .
the epicenter be about 85 mile from papua 's main city of manokwari and occur at a depth of 22 mile , the u.s. geological survey say .
it be follow by dozen of aftershock .
july 2 , 2013 07 : 44 .
powerful earthquake injure dozen in indonesia aceh province .
at least 50 report injured and building destroy after a 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake strike sumatra aceh province .
a powerful 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake hit indonesia northwestern aceh province on the island of sumatra early tuesday .
dozen have be report injure .
the epicenter of the quake be roughly 55 kilometer from the town of bireuen , a regency of the larger aceh province , accord to datum from the we geological survey .
it take place at 7 : 37 be local time .
although it unknown how many be injure , sky news estimate least 50 people , '' and numerous building have collapse as a effect of the powerful tremor .
the quake appear to have shake the provincial capital of banda aceh , which be located at the northern tip of the sumatran land mass .
more from globalpost : aceh bloodstained election .
i see many house be damage and they roof fall onto some people , '' central aceh district resident bensu elianita tell the associated press .
many people be injure but it be difficult to evacuate they due to traffic jam . '' .
we have receive around 50 people with injury suffer when the wall of they house collapse , '' say doctor ema suryani to afp , speak from lampahan city in aceh bener meriah district .
aceh be hit extremely hard by the massive boxing day earthquake and tsunami in 2004 , kill 170 , 000 people in sumatra alone - with 35 , 000 body never recover .
the rebuilding process continue to this day from the enormous natural disaster .
here a slideshow of image of the northern sumatra quake on tuesday .
powerful 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake injure dozen in indonesia aceh province .
tue , 02 jul 2013 12 : 28 cdt .
a powerful 6 . 1 magnitude earthquake hit indonesia northwestern aceh province , on the island of sumatra .
dozen have be report injure .
the epicenter of the quake be roughly 55 kilometer from the town of bireuen , a regency of the larger aceh province , and take place at 7 : 37 be local time accord to datum from the we geological survey .
although it unknown how many be injure , sky news estimate least 50 people , '' and numerous building have collapse as a effect of the powerful tremblor .
the quake appear to have shake the provincial capital of banda aceh , which be located at the northern tip of the sumatran land mass .
i see many house be damage and they roof fall onto some people , '' say central aceh district resident bensu elianita to the associated press .
many people be injure but it be difficult to evacuate they due to traffic jam . '' .
we have receive around 50 people with injury suffer when the wall of they house collapse , '' say doctor ema suryani to afp , speak from lampahan city in aceh bener meriah district .
aceh be hit extremely hard by the massive boxing day earthquake and tsunami in 2004 , kill 170 , 000 people in sumatra alone - with 35 , 000 body never recover .
the rebuilding process continue to this day from the enormous natural disaster .
dozen injure as 6 . 1 - magnitude quake hit indonesia aceh .
publish on jul 02 , 2013 4 : 22 pm .
a 6 . 1 - magnitude earthquake which hit the indonesian province of aceh on tuesday kill at least one person , injure dozen and destroy building , spark panic in a region devastate by the quake - trigger tsunami of 2004 .
the quake hit inland at a depth of just 10km , 55km south of bireun and 72 km southeast of reuleuet , the we geological survey say .
house collapse in the district , some 320km from the provincial capital banda aceh .
a child die when a wall collapse , '' say ema suryanus , a doctor at a health clinic in lampahan city , bener meriah district .
4 - plus earthquake record near healdsburg .
at a richter magnitude of 4 . 6 , this one should have awaken sleeper .
march 14 , 2013 at 12 : 41 pm .
a earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 4 . 6 be record in the north bay this morning , accord to the u . s . geological survey .
the quake occur at 2 : 09 a . m . about 14 mile north - northeast of healdsburg and have a depth of 1 . 2 mile .
the region be close to the geyser geothermal plant , which have frequent earthquake of much lower magnitude .
accord to earthquaketrack . com , it be the largest earthquake in the area for the past month .
do any patch reader feel the earthquake , or perhaps wake up shortly after 2 a . m . because of it ?
tell we in the comment .
california earthquake today 2013 erupt outside sacramento .
post : march 14th , 2013 .
a california earthquake today 2013 have erupt outside santa rosa .
the strong and shallow quake begin in the predawn morning hour today thursday , march 14 , 2013 .
no report of injury have yet to be indicate by local news .
official tell news that a 4 . 6 magnitude california earthquake begin today shortly after 2 : 09 be pst .
the quake however have a nominal depth .
usg indicate to news that the quake begin only one mile below ground level .
as a result , the quake could be feel across the region .
map reveal that the quake begin near clearlake , south of lakeport and west of interstate 5 .
the quake be northwest of sacramento and woodland and roseville , north of santa rosa and san francisco , and south of mendocino national forest .
usg report to news that the quake begin two mile northeast of the geyser , four mile west of cobb , and six mile west of anderson spring .
the quake also begin twelve mile east of clovedale and twenty - six mil north of santa rosa .
official tell news that the quake also begin seventy - three mile west of sacramento .
the same epicenter have be active over the year .
in june 2012 , a 3 . 0 quake strike one mile north of the geyser .
the quake be six mile west of cobb and seven mile from anderson spring .
it be also east of cloverdale and approximately twenty - six mile from santa rosa .
the quake be centered seventy - five mile north of san francisco .
a earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 4.4 strike in sonoma county this morning near the geyser , accord to the u.s. geological survey .
the earthquake strike at about 9:30 a.m. and have a depth of 2.7 mile , accord to the usg .
the quake be center about two mile from the geyser and 13 mile east of cloverdale .
earlier this morning , a earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 2.0 strike near the geyser , accord to the usg .
the earthquake strike at about 7:30 a.m. and have a depth of 1.4 mile , accord to the usg .
4 . 6 magnitude quake record in sonoma county .
thursday , march 14 , 2013 .
a earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 4 . 6 be record in the north bay this morning , accord to the u . s . geological survey .
the quake occur at 2 : 09 a . m . about 14 mile north - northeast of healdsburg and have a depth of 1 . 2 mile .
it be follow by a 2 . 9 aftershock at 2 : 12 a . m . and a 2 . 2 at 2 : 15 a . m . .
there be no report of injury or major damage .
a 4.2 magnitude earthquake shake a remote area of eastern sonoma county on sunday morning , the largest in a flurry over the weekend , accord to the u.s. geological survey .
the temblor occur at 9:27 a.m. , 13 mile east of cloverdale and 2 mile southeast of the geyser , where geothermal force by more than 20 power plant be harness to provide energy for several north bay county .
accord to the usg , the area have no fault , but the pump of water from plant into the ground periodically induce small temblor .
the size of sunday morning 's earthquake catch the attention of people in cobb , a small community along highway 175 in lake county , 4 mile east of the geyser .
'' shake be not uncommon here , but this be a pretty good jolt , '' say jame gaskell , manager of hardester 's grocery .
the only product to fall off shelf be q-tip box and mayonnaise , but '' we wine rattle pretty good . '' .
down the road at brick oven pizza , which open for breakfast on weekend , '' it catch we attention , '' say geri angel , a waitress .
'' we have teacup rattler all the time , but pan be swing for this one . '' .
4 . 6 quake rattle sonoma county early thursday .
post : 03 / 14 / 2013 06 : 37 : 46 be pdt .
update : 03 / 14 / 2013 07 : 51 : 21 be pdt .
a earthquake measure 4 . 6 rattle sonoma and lake county early thursday , accord to the u . s . geological survey .
the quake occur at 2 : 09 a . m . , about 14 mile northeast of healdsburg , on the maacama fault with a depth of 12 mile .
a sonoma county sheriff dispatcher say around 7 a . m . that there have be no report of damage or injury .
a powerful earthquake center near the geyser shake not just community on cobb but startle resident in other part of the county and even in other state .
the 4.2-magnitude earthquake be record at approximately 9:27 a.m. sunday , accord to the we geological survey , which originally have rate the quake as 4.4 in magnitude .
the we geological survey report list the epicenter as two mile east southeast of the geyser , four mile southwest of cobb and four mile west of anderson spring , at a depth of 2.7 mile .
at 9:32 p.m. , it be follow by a 2.0-magnitude centered quake two mile east of the geyser and four mile southwest of cobb , at a depth of two-tenth of a mile , accord to the we geological survey .
five more small quake measure between 1.0 and 1.9 on the richter scale be report in the follow half-hour .
altogether , 23 quake occur sunday in and around the geyser , anderson spring and cobb , include the big quake and six smaller one that happen before it , we geological survey record show .
resident of cobb , kelseyville and hidden valley lake tell lake county news that they feel the quake .
it be describe as have a rolling-type movement .
no one report damage although one person say she be nearly knock out of she chair while sit at the computer .
cobb resident roger kinney initially report that the quake last about 10 seconds , with it come on quickly , follow by violent shake before it dissipate and be follow by a second shockwave five seconds later .
he say it be the largest quake he be feel since move to the area two and a half year ago .
the we geological survey receive report from people from around lake county who feel the quake - include middletown , hidden valley , lakeport , spring valley , clearlake and cobb .
numerous resident of santa rosa , healdsburg , napa and san francisco also report feel it .
there be even report from as far away as south lake tahoe , vacaville and las vegas .
the last earthquake measure 3.0 or above occur on dec. 30 , three mile east of the geyser at a depth of 1.1 mile .
it measure 3.0 on the richter scale , as lake county news have report .
4 . 6 - magnitude earthquake shake lake county .
thursday , march 14 , 2013 .
lake county cobb mountain community be shake awake early thursday morning by a magnitude 4 . 6 earthquake that startle even folk accustom to seismic activity because of its size .
while shaker around magnitude 2 and 3 be common to the area , thursday 2 : 09 a . m . jolt last longer and prove stronger than usual , resident say .
it last a really long time .
you could tell it be larger , say hardester market clerk alicia mullin .
it be pretty significant , '' say bonnie evan at the texaco station in town , where cigarette , can soup and a couple of bottle in the walk - in fridge have be knock to the ground .
the u . s . geological survey report that the quake be center about 3 mile southwest of cobb , in a seismically active area near the geyser geothermal steamfield .
resident of sonoma county feel it , too , include some as far south as santa rosa .
a light earthquake have strike northern california , and there be no report of injury or damage .
the u.s. geological survey say the 4.4-magnitude temblor on sunday at 9:27 a.m. be centered 23 mile north of santa rosa , and two mile from the geyser .
good size quake at the california geyser .
i feel this one pretty good .
be located 25 mile south of the quake .
slow easy rock for about 6 seconds .
this one be pretty rare for the geyser .
the geyser be one of the most active area of northern california with small earthquake hit the area nearly every week .
a 4 . 4 quake be on the large size for the geyser .
the ugsg website say the largest quake ever to be record there be 4 . 5 .
4 . 6 - magnitude earthquake record near healdsburg .
do you feel the earthquake ?
march 14 , 2013 at 11 : 51 be .
a earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 4 . 6 be record in the north bay this morning , accord to the u . s . geological survey .
the quake occur at 2 : 09 a . m . about 14 mile north - northeast of healdsburg and have a depth of 1 . 2 mile .
do you feel the earthquake ?
have you feel any aftershock ?
lake county earthquake shake napa .
march 14 , 2013 6 : 13 be .
the napa valley be shake at 2 : 09 a . m . thursday by a magnitude 4 . 6 earthquake located near clearlake in lake county , the u . s . geological survey report .
the temblor rattle home in napa , but would not have be expect to do any local damage .
the usg rate 4 . 6 magnitude as a light quake .
two aftershock , magnitude 2 . 9 and 2 . 2 , occur immediately follow .
march 14 , 2013 - united state - .
a 4 . 6 - magnitude earthquake rattle northern california overnight thursday , shake resident from san francisco to north of sacramento .
the temblor strike at 2 : 09 a . m . and be center in geyserville , about 20 mile north of santa rosa , accord to the u . s . geological survey .
usg measurement indicate at least 20 smaller earthquake follow throughout the morning .
the santa rosa press democrat report the quake begin only one mile below ground level , which be why it be feel across the region .
there be no immediate report of damage , the newspaper say .
but it wake people up .
more than 60 people report to usg do you feel it ? '' site , with report range from san francisco and oakland to lake and yuba county .
other report the shake on twitter .
tectonic summary - maacama fault .
the maacama fault be mostly a right - lateral strike - slip fault that lie north of santa rosa and the immediate san francisco bay area and extend as far north as ukiah .
it connect to the rodger creek fault through a complex set of fault between santa rosa and healdsburg , and be think to be the northward continuation of the hayward - rodger creek fault system .
the 2007 work group for california earthquake probability assign a total slip rate on the maacama fault of approximately 9 mm / yr -lrb- 1 / 3 inch / yr -rrb- , base on the assumption that it continue the slip on the hayward - rodger creek fault northward .
the central and northern section of the fault have be observe to accommodate approximately 7 mm / yr -lrb- 1 / 4 inch / year -rrb- of creep along it .
the maacama fault parallel and overlap the rodger creek fault , in a geometry that be cause the ground between the fault to subside .
in sonoma county north of healdsburg , the maacama fault be largely obscure by massive landslide where it pass east of alexander valley .
the 2007 work group for california earthquake probability combine the maacama and the garberville fault into single a 181 - km -lrb- 110 mile -rrb- long fault and determine m7 . 5 as the maximum magnitude for this combined fault system .
there be very little known about the seismic history or earthquake cycle of the maacama fault , and as such recurrence interval be uncertain .
4 . 6 earthquake shake northern california .
march 14 , 2013 | 8 : 16 be .
a magnitude 4 . 6 earthquake strike northern california on thursday morning , .
the temblor strike about 26 mile north of santa rosa in the geyser area .
there be no report of damage or injury , but there be some apparent aftershock .
it be feel over a wide area of the region , include in santa rosa , marin county and vallejo , accord to the u . s . geological survey .
the do you feel it ? '' survey by the usg show people as far south a san francisco feel shake .
magnitude 4 . 6 earthquake shake up north bay .
march 14 , 2013 5 : 22 be .
a earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 4 . 6 be record in the north bay thursday morning , accord to the u . s . geological survey .
the quake occur at 2 : 09 a . m . about 14 mile north - northeast of healdsburg and have a depth of 1 . 2 mile .
the show have be run for 45-year , and the fan of the show will always remember the ten actor who play doctor who before smith , he name will now join that exclusive list .
each actor have bring something unique to the role , so smith will have he work cut out .
matt smith have time to come to term to the task ahead , as current doctor who , david tennant will not leave the bbc show until the end of 2009 .
smith will play the time lord in 2010 .
do you think smith will make a great doctor who ?
peter capaldi to replace matt smith on doctor who .
publish sunday , aug 4 2013 , 19 : 30 bst .
peter capaldi be to be the new star of doctor who .
the thick of it actor will play the 12th doctor , replace matt smith on bbc one hit sci - fi drama .
capaldi be unveil on tonight -lrb- august 4 -rrb- special show doctor who live : the next doctor on bbc one and give he first interview since take the role with host zoe ball .
he have be widely tip to take the role for day , with bookmaker suspend bet yesterday after make he the odds - on favourite .
he will take over from smith in this year christmas special ahead of he first full series as the time lord in 2014 .
jenna coleman , who play current companion clara , will join capaldi for the show eighth series since return to screen in 2005 .
capaldi - a long - time fan of the show - reveal that he discover that he have be cast as the 12th doctor while film in prague for the bbc upcome adaptation of the three musketeer .
in a statement , the 55 - year - old say : be ask to play the doctor be a amazing privilege .
like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
i not wait to get start . '' .
executive producer steven moffat add : it a incendiary combination : one of the most talented actor of he generation be about to play the best part on television .
peter capaldi be in the tardis ! '' .
jenna coleman reveal that she be so excited to welcome peter capaldi as the 12th incarnation of the doctor , add : with steven writing and he talent i know will be make a amazing show with a incredible incarnation of number 12 .
i not wait to start this new adventure ! '' .
ben stephenson , controller of bbc drama commission , say : we start think peter capaldi might be the right person to take on this iconic part a few month ago .
but it be only when he do a secret audition at steven house under the cover of darkness that we know we have we man .
he a extraordinarily talented actor who can seemingly turn he hand to anything .
we not wait to premiere he unique take on the doctor on christmas day and we be sure he go to become one of the all - time classic doctor . '' .
doctor who return to screen on november 23 for its 50th anniversary special star matt smith , david tennant and john hurt .
relatively unknown actor matt smith be name as the next face of tv 's most famous time traveller .
peter capaldus announce as the new doctor who .
august 05 , 2013 4 : 14pm .
peter capaldi have be announce as the new doctor who , the 12th actor to take up the coveted tv role .
fan eagerly await the news , which be broadcast during a special live show on abc this morning .
the 55 - year - old scottish actor will replace matt smith , who announce in june that he be leave the sci - fi show later this year .
scroll down to see the first xi doctor and tell we who you favourite have be .
capaldi be best know in britain for he star role as a sharp - tongued spin doctor malcolm tucker in the critically - acclaimed uk political comedy the thick of it .
he have a long list of movie , television and stage credit , from the 1983 film local hero to a role alongside brad pitt in the recent zombie horror world war z .
he also a oscar winner - he direct franz kafka it a wonderful life , which win the academy award for best short film in 1994 .
in a live interview with the bbc capaldi admit he have be a long - time fan of the show .
he say he use to pretend to be the doctor as a child grow up in glasgow .
be ask to play the doctor be a amazing privilege .
like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
i not wait to get start , '' he say .
i have play it since i be nine .
as a adult actor have never work on it .
'' -lrb- for the audition -rrb- i download some old script from the internet and pracitise that in front of the mirror . '' .
the role will be a dramatic change from capaldi turn as tucker , a political manipulator know for he ceaseless and creative use of expletive .
doctor who be a firmly child - friendly program .
i think malcolm have be banish from the mirror by this doctor who , who certainly would not put up with any of malcolm language or attitude , '' capaldi say .
capaldi attribute the longevity of the show to the creative team behind it as well as to its million of fan around the world .
the show be a television institution , make its debut in 1963 .
in the show the galaxy - hop time lord travel in the tardis , a time machine shape like a old - fashion british police telephone booth .
its longevity be due partly to the flexibility of the premise .
the doctor can regenerate into new body , and can travel to any point in space or time .
the show go off air in 1989 and be revive in 2005 when christopher eccleston take on the role .
david tennant then star for three season before smith take over in 2010 .
talk about he time in the show , smith tell the bbc live show : will miss play a character who can bounce from a - z and be the smartest in the room and the silliest in the room ... ... ...
what a character ! '' .
on saturday it be announce that the actor to play the eleventh doctor be none other than matt smith .
'' who ? '' ask people entirely appropriately .
on saturday , the 26-year-old be hand the key to the tardis when he be unveil as the 11th doctor who , replace david tennant , who step down later this year .
matt , who have stage and tv credit , will take up the role in 2010 .
this weekend doctor who fan finally learn who would play the eleventh doctor after david tennant leave the role .
matt smith will take up steer the tardis and save the universe when the series return for its fifth season .
the bbc say little-known actor matt smith will take over the title role in the long-running sci-fi series '' doctor who . '' .
4 august 2013 last update at 19 : 47 gmt .
doctor who : peter capaldus reveal as 12th doctor .
actor peter capaldi have be announce as the new star of bbc sci - fi series doctor who .
the 55 - year - old glasgow - bear star will be the 12th actor to play the doctor , replace out - go lead matt smith .
capaldi be best know for he role as foul - mouth spin - doctor malcolm tucker in the bbc series the thick of it .
it so wonderful not to keep this secret any longer , but it be so fantastic , '' he say after the news be reveal on a live bbc one show .
the actor have be the bookmaker favourite to take on the role , with bet on he become the next doctor suspend on friday .
it be not the first time capaldi have appear on the show - he play roman merchant caecilius in 2008 doctor who adventure the fire of pompeii .
at 55 , he be the same age as william hartnell when he be cast in the role as the first doctor in 1963 .
be ask to play the doctor be a amazing privilege .
like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
i not wait to get start , '' he say .
secret audition .
steven moffat , the show lead writer and executive producer , say casting capaldi as the doctor be a incendiary combination .
one of the most talented actor of he generation be about to play the best part on television . '' .
moffat say capaldi have be cast after a secret audition at he house .
we make a home video of -lsb- capaldi -rsb- be the doctor and i show it around and everyone say yes , that the doctor .
moffat add the actor have briefly flick through my mind the last time he be cast the role , but he do not think he be right for the part , however now that moment have arrive .
capaldi say he download old doctor who script from the internet and practise the line in front of a mirror to prepare for the audition .
he reveal he be film a bbc adaptation of the three musketeer in prague when he find out he get the part .
i have my phone on silent so i miss the call , '' he say .
it be my agent and i ring she up and she say hello doctor - i have stop laugh since . '' .
incredible incarnation .
out - go doctor matt smith welcome capaldi casting , and pre - record a message for the new time lord .
i wish my successor all the best and say good luck and good on you for get it , because i know he both a huge fan of the show and a really nice guy , '' he say .
the casting make I ready excited and as a fan i think it a canny choice .
if i have to pick someone , would pick he because i think he great .
be excited because i know what come and he go to have a blast . '' .
jenna coleman , who star as current doctor who companion clara , say : be so excited peter capaldi be the man take on the challenge of become the 12th doctor .
with steven writing and he talent i know will be make a amazing show with a incredible incarnation of number 12 .
i not wait to start this new adventure . '' .
ben stephenson , controller of bbc drama commission say capaldi be a extraordinarily talented actor who can seemingly turn he hand to anything .
we not wait to premiere he unique take on the doctor on christmas day and we be sure he go to become one of the all - time classic doctor . '' .
follow the announcement , the thick of it writer armando ianucci tweet : there not be a funnier , wiser , more exciting time lord than peter capaldi .
the universe be in great hand . '' .
capaldi will film he first scene on the series this autumn .
with young british actor matt smith step into doctor who be title role , wired.com take a look back at the 10 actor who have previously portray sci-fi tv 's most enduring hero .
peter capaldi be the only name consider to take over doctor who role from matt smith , say show boss steven moffat .
5 aug 2013 10 : 37 .
showrunner , 51 , add that malcolm tucker will not cast a shadow over new time lord : you know when the doctor be in the room .
doctor who boss steven moffat have reveal that peter capaldi be the only name consider to take over from matt smith .
speak after last night announcement of the thick of it star as the twelfth doctor , moffat also say that the 55 - year - old lifelong love of doctor who have be a aspect when it come to cast he .
ask whether the list of time lord contender be a short one , moffat say : yes .
the list go peter capaldi .
it be a very short list . '' .
he add : '' -lsb- capaldi come into consideration -rsb- a fair amount of time ago .
i happen to know he a big fan .
there something very seductive about a utterly brilliant , arrest look lead man actor - one of the most talented actor in britain - who you happen to know be a big fan of the show .
you start to think maybe we should so something about that . '' .
the 51 - year - old showrunner also insist that capaldi most herald and readily identifiable previous role - as sweary spin doctor malcolm tucker - would not overshadow he new position in charge of the tardis .
you know when the doctor be in the room , '' say moffat .
have see the doctor not be in the room when you say those line out loud .
and just to check we be mad we show it to -lsb- bbc head of drama -rsb- ben -lsb- stephenson -rsb- .
and we all just think yes , obviously that it .
the doctor in the room . '' .
producer moffat , who be also a co - creator of sherlock , be sure that fan will agree that capaldi be the perfect choice .
when you watch he walk out in the room tonight , do you just think well , there he be ? '' he say .
suddenly he the doctor .
malcolm tucker be knock out of the way .
he just suddenly this magnificent new man . '' .
last night unveiling of capaldi be watch by 6 . 1m people -lrb- a 29 . 8 share of the tv - watch audience -rrb- , peak at 6 . 9m .
tennant have now be vote one of the most popular doctor of all time and be hand he sonic screwdriver over to actor matt smith .
of course , there have be a media frenzy , with practically every national tabloid scream '' who ? ? '' .
but the casting of smith be a stroke of genius : he will not bring any '' star personality '' with he that perhaps a '' name '' would have , but he seem utterly commit , and i have to say he do have a other-worldly look to he .
peter capaldus : from spin doctor to the new doctor who .
scottish actor best know for he role as malcolm tucker in the thick of it reveal as 12th actor to play the doctor .
monday 5 august 2013 08 . 33 bst .
peter capaldi , best know for play foul - mouth spin doctor malcolm tucker in political satire the thick of it , have be name as the 12th actor to play the doctor in the tv series doctor who .
the 55 - year old glasgow - bear actor , a self - confess lifelong doctor who fan , be the oldest actor to play the time lord since the first doctor , william hartnell , in 1963 .
he will replace matt smith , the youngest ever doctor at 26 when he be introduce in 2009 .
the new doctor be announce in a special live broadcast on bbc1 on sunday night .
capaldi have be firmly install as the bookie favourite ahead of contender include luther idris elba , ben whishaw and daniel rigby , despite a cloak of secrecy surround the identity of the new doctor .
internally the bbc refer to the selection process as project houdinus , with reportedly only 10 people know capaldi have be choose .
it be so wonderful not to keep this secret any more , '' he say .
for a while i could even tell my daughter .
be ask to play the doctor be a amazing privilege .
like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
i not wait to get start . '' .
capaldi admit that it would be tricky to throw off the spectre of he most famous on screen persona , the wily and unscrupulous spin doctor malcolm tucker for the hit bbc show .
i think malcolm have be banish from the mirror by the new doctor who would put up with malcolm attitude to the world , '' say capaldi in a interview with zoe ball .
capaldi , who describe himself as a full anorak doctor who fan who once write a letter aged 15 about doctor who to the radio time , admit he be yet to get he head around be name as one of british tv most enduring and best love character .
he not I yet , '' he say .
but he be reach out and hopefully we will get it together .
even though i be a lifelong doctor who fan have not play he since i be nine .
i download old script and practise those in front of the mirror . '' .
capaldi be not completely new to doctor who , have appear in the programme playing caecilius in the episode the fire of pompeii in 2008 with david tennant .
steven moffat , lead writer and executive producer of doctor who , say : it a incendiary combination : one of the most talented actor of he generation be about to play the best part on television . '' he say .
'' peter capaldi be in the tardis . '' .
capaldi say he have he phone on silent when he receive the call that he have get the role - he be in prague shooting a bbc remake of the three musketeer , where he play cardinal richelieu .
a assistant deliver the good news by say : hello doctor .
moffat say capaldi have be think of before but that the timing have not be right .
we all have a idea , we all have the same idea , it be quite a different idea , '' he say .
we get the notional 12th doctor around to my house and make a home video .
everyone say yes that be the doctor .
there come a right time for the right person to play it .
that moment have arrive . '' .
the live announcement be broadcast simultaneously on bbc america , highlight the increase popularity of the franchise internationally and grow importance of the world biggest tv market for the bbc franchise .
in doctor who lore capaldi be the 12th doctor , leave just one left and raise the long - hold question of how the script writer will overcome the problem to keep the franchise go .
be get towards the end of the incarnation cycle and everyone always remember that bit of the overall plot , '' say tom spilsbury , editor of the official doctor who magazine .
the question be probably a few year away now for doctor who fan , i not think they will be worry about it just yet .
doctor who be popular so -lsb- the bbc -rsb- will invent away to get around it when the time come , not they ? '' .
the hope of a first female doctor have once again be dash , though moffat tantalisingly hint that the prospect remain for the future .
time lord can change gender , so it be not against the rule , '' he say .
jenna coleman , who will remain as the doctor companion when capaldi take over the role next year , say : with steven writing and he talent i know will be make a amazing show with a incredible incarnation of number 12 .
i not wait to start this new adventure . '' .
the decision be welcome by smith who pre - record a message to capaldi , say : i just want to wish my successor all the best and just say good luck and good on you for get it , because i know he be both a huge fan of the show and a really nice guy .
the casting of it make I really excite genuinely , and as a fan i think it a really canny choice , so good luck mate , it go to be a thrill . '' .
smith add : if i have to pick someone , would pick he , because i think he great .
and weirdly enough , after the 11th hour , he come up to I in the street and say , ah mate , well do .
i watch you episode last night , it be brilliant , i think you really good .
and i really need that , i need a sort of boost and i never forget it . '' .
capaldi have appear in more than 40 film and tv show , include dangerous liaison , shoot fish , minder , the vicar of dibley , peep show and wake the dead , since be cast as danny oldsen in the 1983 film local hero .
he be also play guardian editor alan rusbridger in the forthcoming film about the wikileak affair .
when matt smith step into doctor who be title role as the 11th doctor this weekend , he go from british character actor to potential entertainment legend .
peter capaldi exclusively reveal to the nation as the twelfth doctor .
sunday 4 august 2013 , 19 : 30 .
amid much hype and speculation , peter capaldi be unveil as the next doctor during a special live television event on bbc one tonight .
widely regard as one of the biggest role in british television , capaldi will be the twelfth doctor and take over from matt smith who leave the show at christmas .
peter capaldi say : be ask to play the doctor be a amazing privilege .
like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
i not wait to get start . '' .
steven moffat , lead writer and executive producer say : it a incendiary combination : one of the most talented actor of he generation be about to play the best part on television .
peter capaldi be in the tardis ! '' .
doctor who companion , jenna coleman say : be so excited peter capaldi be the man take on the challenge of become the twelfth doctor .
with steven writing and he talent i know will be make a amazing show with a incredible incarnation of number 12 .
i not wait to start this new adventure ! '' .
charlotte moore , controller bbc one say : peter capaldi have all the genius and versatility need to take on the mantel of the great time lord and make the role he own .
will bring he own particular wisdom , charisma and wit to the twelfth doctor and take the show into a exciting new era . '' .
ben stephenson , controller , bbc drama commission say : we start think peter capaldi might be the right person to take on this iconic part a few month ago .
but it be only when he do a secret audition at steven house under the cover of darkness that we know we have we man .
he a extraordinarily talented actor who can seemingly turn he hand to anything .
we not wait to premiere he unique take on the doctor on christmas day and we be sure he go to become one of the all - time classic doctor . '' .
doctor who be produce by bbc cymru wale .
smith , 26 , who play a young political researcher in the show , will become the biggest star of all after win the role of the 11th doctor .
speak to the guardian , buchan say he old co-star would make a excellent doctor who .
'' it be a sublime bit of casting .
he be get that huge hair , a twinkle in he eye - matt 's the king of geek chic .
he be possibly go to be one of the best doctor we have ever have . '' .
peter capaldi take over doctor who tardi : john barrowman , stephen fry & mcfly tom fletcher lead celeb congrat .
celeb fan take to twitter as matt smith replacement be unveil .
the new doctor who have finally be unveil .
yesterday evening the new tenant of the tardis be unveil as peter capaldi step into matt smith soon to be vacant doctor who shoe as the twelfth incarnation of the time lord .
celebrity who fan be soon take to twitter in they drove to voice they excitement at the doctor appointment .
the thick of it star , capaldi describe himself as a life - long doctor who fan when reveal by zoe ball as smith successor on a live bbc show on sunday evening .
he say in he first interview : it so wonderful not to keep the secret any longer ! '' .
for a while i could tell my daughter , who be look on the internet at people say so - and - so should be doctor who , so - and - so should be doctor who ... ... ...
she be get rather upset that they never mention I ! '' .
the 55 - year - old be a hugely popular choice , judge by some celebrity twitter chatter last night .
huge who fan stephen fry tweet : well , at least they choose a wonderful actor ... ... ... #drwho whilst former companion karen gillan be more than happy with peter , who she star with in 2008 doctor who episode the fire of pompeii .
capaldi !
superb choice .
swear have see he in pompeius ... ... ... '' .
sherlock star and doctor who writer mark gatiss add to the gush message .
thrilling , move , beyond exciting .
cometh the hour , cometh the man !
peter capaldi be the perfect choice .
welcome , doctor ! '' .
self confess sci - fi geek tom fletcher from mcfly be the envy of he twitter follower as he hear the news live from the studio , sit amongst fellow doctor who fan as he tweet .
that be tense , be sweating wait for the big reveal !
sooooo it peter capaldi .
big change !
exciting innit ! ! ! '' .
former doctor colin baker tweet : delighted to hear peter capaldi be the new doctor , very good choice .
another scot eh ?
nice to have a more mature doctor too .
bring it on ! ! '' .
captain jack harkness , john barrowman add he congrat : peter capaldi good choice and good actor .
also he #scottish .
not go wrong : -rrb- .
welcome to the #doctorwho family : -rrb- '' .
finally homeland star david harewood , one of the buzz about name to take over the role , manage a cheeky joke amid all the excitement : well , if it be I , the bleedin taxi late .
a relative unknown will take over the title role of doctor who in the british science fiction television show , make he the 11th time lord in 45 year to travel across the universe in the tardis time-ship .
matt smith , 26 , will make he debut in 2010 , replace david tennant , who leave at the end of this year .
he be the youngest actor to play the part .
smith have previously appear on tv , in film and the theatre and be best know for appear in the bbc 's the ruby in the smoke .
doctor who reveal : peter capaldi cast as the 12th time lord !
sun . , aug . 4 , 2013 11 : 29 be pdt .
meet you new time lord !
doctor who have finally select its 12th doctor : peter capaldi be officially set to replace exit star matt smith as the tardis leader , producer steven moffat announce on the live bbc special doctor who live : the next doctor sunday .
well know for he work as malcolm tucker on the thick of it , capaldus , 55 , not a stranger to the longrunning bbc hit fan : he appear opposite david tennant in the fire of pompeii in 2008 as caecilius and have a major role on torchwood : child of earth , the doctor who spinoff series .
be ask to play the doctor be a amazing privilege , '' capaldi say .
like the doctor himself i find myself in a state of utter terror and delight .
it so wonderful not to keep this secret any longer , but it be so fantastic . '' .
i just want to wish my successor all the best and say good luck and good on you for get it , '' smith say in a videotaped message .
i know he a huge fan of the show and a really nice guy .
the casting of it make I really excite it .
i think it a really canny choice .
good luck , man .
it go to be a thrill . '' .
oddly enough , capaldi be recently see in brad pitt world war z as a world health organization doctor , or w . h . o . doctor , for short .
the big reveal be arguably britain second most highly - anticipated announcement in recent history , follow prince george arrival , with bbc even promote the announcement that a announcement would be make .
the decision be make & the time have come to reveal who take over the tardis , '' bbcone promote on twitter .
for the last of the time lord , the clock be striking twelve . '' .
smith have play the iconic role since 2010 and shocked fan when he announce he he departure from the series in june .
doctor who have be the most brilliant experience for I as a actor and a bloke , and that largely be down to the cast , crew and fan of the show .
be incredibly grateful to all the cast and crew who work tirelessly every day , to realise all the element of the show and deliver doctor who to the audience , '' he write on bbc doctor who website .
many of they have become good friend and be incredibly proud of what we have achieve over the last four year . '' .
the series 50th anniversary special , which all air in november , be set to be smith last official outing as the doctor , but it be reveal that he will also make a appearance in the christmas special .
when the 26-year-old unknown be unveil as the 11th doctor on saturday evening , it take most viewer by surprise .
doctor who : peter capaldus announce as the new doctor .
august 4 , 2013 2 : 29 pm et .
after lot of speculation , peter capaldi have be name the new doctor for series 8 of doctor who . '' .
he will take over for matt smith , the 12th doctor , who be leave during the 2013 christmas special .
the announcement be make sunday -lrb- august 4 -rrb- , during doctor who live : the next doctor , '' which air on bbc and bbc america .
capaldi , a scottish actor , be best know for star in the bbc series thick of it , '' though he have a few movie credit to he name , as well .
he appear in world war z -lrb- ironically , in the role of w . h . o . doctor -rrb- and have a part in the upcome maleficent , '' star angelina jolie .
capaldi have also appear on doctor who before , guest star in the series 4 episode the fire of pompeii . '' .
the live special , host by zoe ball , feature celebrity guest share they love for doctor who , '' include peter davison -lrb- 5th doctor -rrb- .
the show also feature a interview with smith , who endorse the new doctor .
if i have to pick someone , it would be -lsb- capaldi -rsb- .
i think he great , '' he say .
i just want to wish my successor all the best . '' .
it be first announce smith would be leave the show in june .
he join the series , become the 11th doctor , in 2010 .
he be the third to take on the role since the series be relaunch in 2005 , follow in the footstep of christopher eccleston -lrb- 9th doctor -rrb- and david tennant -lrb- 10th doctor -rrb- .
the new doctor will be introduce as smith leave the role , regenerate in the 2013 christmas special -lrb- air december 25 -rrb- .
it will also serve as the show 800th episode .
smith be first introduce in the 2009 christmas special , the end of time . '' .
just hour after little-known actor matt smith be name as the new doctor in the bbc wale hit show , speculation mount that a star name would accompany he on he time-travelling adventure .
peter capaldi favourite to take over from matt smith as doctor who .
wednesday 31 jul 2013 11 : 20 be .
peter capaldi be the bookie favourite to become the next doctor who .
there have be a surge in bet on capaldi , who play sweary spin doctor malcom tucker in the thick of it , replace matt smith , accord to william hill .
joe crilly , a spokesperson for william hill , say : peter capaldi be not even in we list a few day ago but he have be the subject of a lot of bet interest recently and this gamble would suggest that if he do not have the part already , he be almost certainly on the shortlist . ' .
he now have odds of 2 / 1 to become the 12th time lord above ben daniel and rory kinnear .
previous favourite kinnear have slip down the list after he rule himself out of the running , claim he never see a episode of doctor who .
capaldi name may have be link to the role after doctor who creator steven moffat say he would not rule out cast a older doctor .
he say at the recent san diego comic - con : have never not consider a older doctor .
it be completely on all the list we make - there be absolutely older doctor . ' .
26-year-old matt smith have be cast as the next incarnation of the doctor .
user on the facebook doctor who forum that i frequent mostly have the same reaction : '' who be matt smith ? '' .
the guy be relatively unknown and the skeptic wonder if the right person be choose .
after all , everyone speculate that paterson joseph , who have appear on a couple episode of the show , be go to be the next doctor and here we get some no-name .
peter capaldi as doctor who : a return to distinguish tradition ?
aug . 05 , 2013 | 2 : 47 p . m .
and as the world -lrb- or one obsess subset thereof -rrb- watch , the name of the person to play the twelfth doctor - though not , of course , the name of the doctor , which shall remain unspoken - be reveal .
peter capaldi , the bookmaker choice by a wide margin , will take over for the retire matt smith , the doctor since 2010 .
smith doctor will regenerate into capaldi - same character , just a different body - this christmas .
the new star of doctor who be best know to american , which be not to say well know , as the f - bombing spin doctor in armando iannucci political comedy the thick of it -lrb- bbc series -rrb- and in the loop -lrb- film spinoff -rrb- and , reach back through the foggy mist of time , for bill forsyth gentle comedy of scotland , local hero . '' .
he be , at any rate , better know to we than be he immediate predecessor , christopher eccleston , david tennant and smith , when they assume the role .
he have twice appear in the whoniverse , as a first - century businessman in the fire of pompeii and a tragic figure at the center of the spin - off torchwood miniseries , child of earth . '' .
he also appear in world war z as a world health organization , or who , doctor .
you feel a little chill then , do you ?
the announcement come sunday , after month of public speculation and wish - listing , conspiratorial sifting of coincidence and reading of tea leave , near the end of doctor who live : the next doctor , '' a bbc special that air here simultaneously on bbc america .
it be not to be confuse with the big 50th anniversary special set for november .
with fifth doctor peter davison -lrb- the cricket - sweater doctor -rrb- and elderly companion bernard cribben as its main in - studio star power and a float tardis -lrb- police - box shaped time machine , for the uninitiated -rrb- introduce as a special guest , '' it be , global interest aside , a small - scale , essentially local , even provincial , event .
because whatever else the new doctor would turn out to be - and , if recent history be any guide he would turn out to be tall , thin , white , clean - shaven , not bald and unconventionally attractive -lrb- check , check , check , check , check and check -rrb- - it be go to be somebody british .
as do jame bond , doctor who posit a world in which the u . k . be still at the center of thing .
it where the alien arrive , and the earth be repeatedly save .
some have hope for a black doctor -lrb- idris elba be often name -rrb- , or a female doctor -lrb- olivia colman , perhaps -rrb- , and as with other great and important office , it do seem only right that it be open to anyone , regardless of gender or color .
indeed , if it seem just possible this time , it hard to believe the next doctor not break one of those line , or both .
that capaldi be a award - win actor of great reputation do not necessarily mean that it will be any easier for he to take control of the tardis .
every new doctor represent a testing of the brand and a testing of the faithful ; there be viewer still mourn the loss of david tennant -lrb- no . 10 -rrb- , and undoubtedly some who feel nothing be as good since tom baker -lrb- no . 4 -rrb- quit , back in 1981 .
it be also , and not incidentally , a test of the show runner , steven moffat , who come in with smith , follow series - rebooter russell t davy .
show runner be a thing we know about now ; we know whom to blame , and moffat draw a fair share .
still , first reaction seem on the whole approve , though some younger online commenter bemoan capaldi age - 55 , the age of william hartnell when he create the role , back in 1963 .
fangirl who crush on the younger eccleston , tennant and / or smith wonder how they would adapt to a doctor old enough to be they dad .
there be , of course , plenty of precedent for gray - hair swashbuckler -lrb- you gandalf , actually call gray , you obi - wan kenobus , you very vibrant third doctor , john pertwee -rrb- .
and moffat can always create companion for raw youth appeal , as be the original custom .
-lrb- hartnell doctor travel with a granddaughter . -rrb- .
certainly , capaldi represent a change from matt smith - think by some to be too young for the part when he take over , ironically - but he also offer a range of new tonal possibility , some of which be also old possibility .
moffat may be more of a who classicist than davy , who bring sex , romance and a will - they - not - they element to the series .
it may be time for the return of a more fatherly doctor .
if you look back across the whole life of the series , capaldi seem very much in the tradition - a likely , almost obvious choice .
he have the authority , the madness , the sweetness .
at the same time , we not know how moffat plan to write he .
the doctor be as constant as the star and as changeable as the wind ; he be a warrior clown , comical and stern , a thousand - year - old child , a tenderhearted soul who love humanity and yet be renown across the universe as the scourge of world .
-lrb- typically , these be world that deserve a scourge . -rrb- .
there be a lot of room to play in there .
fan - especially british fan , whose allegiance span decade and generation , speak of my doctor as if every citizen need to have a favorite - do have strong idea about what the doctor should be .
but variety be in he nature , and in choose to take this ride , we agree to accept the authenticity of the latest anointed choice - a choice no more in we hand , after all , than it be in the doctor .
he be always surprise by who he next find himself to be .
for most viewer the doctor shape himself to the actor , even as the actor shape the part .
you want to honor the tradition , naturally , and you not afford to alienate you audience .
still , fear of change be a poor basis for creative decision - the point , moffat tell hero complex recently , be to bring the world around : you want people to go , no , that would never work ! ' ... ... ...
and they always get wrench out of they comfort zone , and then they find the doctor again .
and there such a range of what the doctor can be . '' .
be excite .
bettie page , the 1950s pinup and bondage model who provide more than a half-century of inspiration for everybody from madonna to the suicide girl to artist olivia de berardinis -lrb- as well as have she image use on all sort of merchandise -rrb- , die yesterday in lo angele at the age of 85 .
bear in nashville , page leave she job as a schoolteacher and secretary to begin a career in modeling in 1950 .
throughout the 50s , she appear clad in leopard print bikini , black leather , and wield whip in publication like wink and titter .
in 1955 , she appear in a christmas spread for playboy .
she have appear in thousand of photo when she abruptly walk away from she career at the age of 35 .
in 1995 , page be summon to testify before the u.s. senate at anti-pornography hearing .
she move to florida shortly thereafter , become a born-again christian , suffer a nervous breakdown , and be diagnose as a schizophrenic .
but she legend grow over the year , as she image keep reappear in popular culture .
she be the inspiration for a character in dale steven ' 1982 comic series the rocketeer , and the 1991 movie base on the series have actress jennifer connolly in the page-inspired role .
artist olivia de berardinis also immortalize page in several painting , which have become popular tattoo among modern day rockabilly and goth girl .
page learn of she career resurgence after be release from a mental hospital in 1992 .
bettie page t-shirt , poster , watch , wallet , and more be hot-seller , and although page refuse to have she picture take the last two decade of she life , she embrace she legacy and occasionally do meet-and-greet signing at event throughout the u.s. and give she blessing to a official web site , www.bettiepage.com .
page have be hospitalize for the past three week for pneumonia .
she be schedule to be release december 2 , but suffer a heart attack .
she health never recover , and she pass at away at 6 : 41 last night .
a number of site have already post tribute to page .
you can check out the tribute in the l.a. time , at mtv.com , and also at page 's official site .
esther william , olympic swimmer turn actress and pinup girl , die at 91 .
esther william , the swimming champion turn actress who star in glittering and aquatic technicolor musical of the 1940s and 1950s , have die .
she be 91 .
william die early thursday in she sleep , accord to she longtime publicist harlan boll .
william in a bathing suit become a favorite pinup of gi in world war ii , and she popularity continue afterward .
bettie page , the 1950s pin-up queen and pop culture icon who die on thursday , will be remember for she indomitable influence on style , fashion , and sexual expression .
but as bettie 's biographer -- and the only one with whom she ever cooperate -- i can tell you that the underground bondage queen also have the unlikely effect of thematically shape a series of biographical and highly feminist novel about powerful woman in history .
in 1991 , intrigue by the resurgence of bettie 's image in venue as diverse as rockabilly club , nostalgia rag , and s and m fashion go mainstream , i write a cover story for the l.a. weekly , '' in search of bettie page . '' .
for nine month , i have track down anyone who have ever know she or photograph she .
but bettie herself , the object of much speculation , remain elusive .
most people think she be dead .
then , as fate would have it , someone give bettie , who be live in anonymity and seclusion , a copy of the article .
imagine the shock -- a seventy-something senior citizen who run away from it all forty year prior , suddenly find that she be famous again .
but she like it .
though she do not want to re-enter the public arena , bettie send I a letter praise the piece , call we '' kindred spirit . '' .
soon , with co-author jame swanson , i embark on the adventure of write she biography , sit down with she for hundred of hour while she tell we she story .
at the time , i be also try to work out how to tell the story of woman in history who have be either drop from the record or misinterpret through the sexist lens of they biographer .
i be to start with kleopatra -lrb- the original greek spelling -rrb- , a victim of roman propaganda remember for the man with whom she sleep rather than for she diplomacy , leadership , and the fact that she have master nine language .
how to present the story of woman who have be victimize without write a victim story , i keep ask myself ?
how to give woman in history who have be reduce to they sexuality the full breadth of they experience without diminish or demeaning they sexuality ?
so here be bettie page , a woman know only for she sexuality , who have be sexually abuse by she father , sexually violate by a gang of stranger , and emotionally batter by a husband .
in the year since she have go underground , bettie have become a born-again christian work for the billy graham crusade .
surely she would repudiate the work she have do as a pin-up and bondage model .
surely she see herself as a victim of the patriarchy that hijack she beauty and sensuality and exploit it for its own gratification .
surely i be about to meet a woman who consider herself a victim .
i be wrong .
despite she more unfortunate experience , bettie never present herself as a casualty of sexual abuse , and she never use that , or she religious belief , which be strong , to renounce the work she have do as a model .
moreover , she never denounce sexual expression .
'' god create we naked , '' she say by way of explain she total lack of inhibition in the buff .
she purported that bondage modeling '' be such fun , '' even at time '' hilarious , '' except for when the elaborate gear become uncomfortable .
and sex itself , she assure I on many occasion , be for she , always pleasurable and joyful .
though she have at time suffer at they hand , she never express bitterness toward man .
i know woman who be resoundingly more hostile than bettie page just for have suffer a few bad date .
no , bettie be not go to allow anyone or anything to diminish the joy she experience when she put that corset on -lrb- or take it off -rrb- and feel she full-blown sexual power .
since the publication of bettie page : life of a pin-up legend , i have publish four historical novel with strong female character .
each , in she own way , be a victim , either of the era in which she live and its law , or of individual abuser , or of the general abuse and oppressive nature of the culture at large .
despite the enormous consciousness-raising of the last few decade , we still see attempt to diminish today 's female powerbroker woman like hillary clinton or sarah palin by sexualize they .
yes , in we porn-saturated society , people be still try to shame woman for -- what ?
have sexual attribute ?
at least we can point to one woman , bettie page , who would not have it .
bettie 's obit paint a bleak picture of she later year .
but i find that , despite she trial , she have retain a zest for life and always take pleasure in memory of the work that she would do .
i hope that bettie be remember for she sexual joy , and for the gleeful spirit she bring to sexual imagery , whether she be frolic on the beach or be ball-gagged and spank , rather than for be a victim .
a female friend of mine say this morning , '' bettie page do more for sexual expression than alfred kinsey '' amen , sister .
for all the countless -lrb- and valuable -rrb- mountain of scholarly and feminist writing that have influence my thinking and my portrayal of woman , i still look to a lady who say it all by look into the camera and defy anyone to tell she she be bad or wrong .
amen to you , too , bettie .
rest in peace .
legendary aquatic musical star esther william die at 91 .
june 6th , 2013 7 : 38pm edt .
championship swimmer - turn - legendary hollywood actress esther william have die .
the star of such mgm movie hit as '' take I out to the ball game , '' jupiter darling and million dollar mermaid , '' pass away in beverly hill , calif . , on thursday at the age of 91 .
the california native , who once hold the record in the 100 meter freestyle , be promote as the girl you will dream about ! '' in the film that make she a household name , bathing beauty , '' which be release shortly after d - day in 1944 , make she one of the top pin - up girl of u . s . servicemen serve in world war ii .
william publicist , harlan boll , confirm she death to the associated press on thursday .
yesterday in lo angele , pin-up icon bettie page succumb to complication from a heart attack suffer almost three week ago .
few woman in modern history have incite such lust and reverence in man and woman alike .
to the rockabilly culture , she embody the ideal woman - voluptuous and healthy , with that level sneer .
she seem to dare you to not stare at she .
she hairstyle launch a thousand girl to slice off they bang and get out the black dye .
literally ten of thousand of woman be walk around today as perfect bettie clone of all shape and size .
with she nude photoshoot , the bondage angle and she defiance in the face of censorship , she be a precursor to the '70s feminist movement - '50s punk rock in heel and garter .
page have be the inspiration for dozen of song all across the musical landscape , but it be the rockabilly guy that take to she the most ; not to mention female-fronted band like the horrorpop or even pop 's katy perry .
even amy winehouse 's look in the beginning be a derivative of page .
she be the wholesome face of america 's kinky secret -- even if no one see that face for half a century .
bettie page , the notorious southern gal-turned-dominatrix-turned pin-up-queen-turned bear again christian , die thursday at age 85 .
the detail of she death be know .
she have be hospitalize in lo angele for four week due to pneumonia , only to suffer from a heart attack .
far less be know of she life -- at least the last five decade of it .
in 1957 , page disappear from the flash of the camera and the public spotlight .
she have find religion , become a recluse , and lose contact with friend and associate .
but in the short time she don panties and garter , brandish a whip and a whip-smart attitude , she be the queen of kink .
page , you see , be to erotica what elvi be to rock 'n ' roll .
no , she be not the first pin-up .
she be not even the best look .
but she have '' that thing '' that could take what be once a dark art form into the american mainstream .
unlike elvi , though , page never get bloated .
she check out in she prime .
she do not even allow to have she photo take .
she remain frozen in time .
yet , she image continue to strut its black stiletto through pop culture .
'' bettie page '' remain short-hand for a haircut , a image and a cult that include everyone and everything -- from designer vivienne westwood to rockabilly hound to hot-rodder , comic book , madonna , goth , neo-burlesque performer and devil-may-care type .
the nashville , tenn. , girl never imagine she would ever stir such a fuss .
'' she look so fresh and wholesome , '' say bunny yeager , whose photograph of page appear in virtually every man 's magazine in the nineteen fifty .
'' she be not try to be seductive ; she be the girl next door . '' .
one big difference between page and most neighbor , say yeager .
'' she feel more comfortable in the nude than in clothes . '' .
she story of unintentional notoriety begin in 1950 , when she board a greyhound bind for manhattan .
within month , she innocent face and curvy body make she the hit of the '' camera-club circuit . '' .
'' back then , you would have a bunch of guy with camera travel by bus to private house to photograph girl , '' yeager say .
a aesthetic be bear , one that mixed mundane suburbia with raw sexuality .
by 1952 , page be break taboo , pose with a ball strap in she mouth , whip in hand and devilish look on face -- in photo and movie that feature strip , spanking and faux lesbianism that straddle burlesque and pornography .
page be hardly tawdry , though , yeager say .
'' she be so at ease , so wholesome . '' .
the trait make a page a natural in natural setting capture by yeager , who meet page in 1954 .
yeager 's shot of she in a jungle swimsuit with two cheetah be '50s exotica par excellence : a mix of the innocence and the wild that shoot through the vein of american sexuality , not to mention pin-up art , hot-rod aesthetics and tikus culture .
playboy magazine not only feature page pictorial ; it adopt she '' girl next door '' charm as its manifesto .
page 's good-girl-bad-deed notoriety turn she into a marilyn monroe with black , wicked hair .
too wicked for the u.s. government , which condemn photo of she take by irve klaw as '' obscene and lewd . '' .
the controversy drive page from modeling and into the arm of jesus .
'' one night while walk the beach she see a neon cross on a church and walk inside , '' yeager say .
she never walk out : page become bear again , move to california , and disappear from the page and the public eye .
but she image never stop titillate .
you see it in rock club , roller derby game , fashion show .
and you see it in a america 's own sexual conflict -- a nation with a puritanical past and a closet full of sin .
even in death , bettie page be the miss link between the two .
pinup icon bettie page die thursday evening at a hospital in lo angele after have suffer a heart attack on dec. 2 and spending time on life support , accord to she official site .
page be bear on april 22 , 1923 , in nashville , tenn .
she begin modeling in 1950 when she meet new york city police officer and photographer jerry tibb .
accord to page 's official website , by 1951 she be appear in the man 's magazine eyefull , wink , titter , and beauty parade .
in 1955 , hugh hefner ask page to pose in a playboy centerfold , a move that would help she seal she popularity and financial security decade later .
page end she modeling career in 1957 after turn to christianity .
despite never pose in sexually explicit pose -lrb- only nude photo -rrb- , page become a unwitting sex symbol and a face of the sexual revolution in the nineteen sixty .
she popularity rise again in the early 1990s but she insecurity keep she out of the spotlight .
she want she fan to remember she as she be in she heyday .
add to she bewilderment be the fact that this new popularity surge happen while page be institutionalize in a southern california mental facility after attack a woman with a knife .
when she be release in 1992 , she find herself in the spotlight again , thanks in part to a movie call the rocketeer , which play off of pulp fiction character of the 30s and 40s , include the image of bettie page .
in spite of she renew popularity , page be not receive any royalty payment from she image .
page sign on with agent jame swanson , who in turn set she up with curtis management group , who fight to get she the pay she deserve .
page come out of hide in 2003 when she agree to be photograph for playboy .
this be she last public photograph .
several biography have be make , include she official biography bettie page .
the life of a pin-up legend , and a biography by richard foster call the real bettie page .
the truth about the queen of pinup .
a movie call '' the notorious bettie page '' be release in 2005 , which tell the pinup 's story between the 1930 and the nineteen fifty .
today , woman still love to emulate she old-fashioned look , specifically she long black hair with bang and red lipstick some people feel as if these woman be unoriginal and fail to find a identity of they own , while other see this as the ultimate form of flattery .
page be survive by she sister joyce wallace of georgia , and she brother jack page , who live in nashville , tennessee .
bettie page , the pin-up model whose seductive photograph in magazine titillate and outraged american in the 1950s , have die , she agent say .
she be 85 .
'' with deep personal sadness i must announce that my dear friend and client bettie page pass away at 6:41 pst this evening -lrb- 0241 gmt friday -rrb- in a los angele hospital , '' she agent mark roesler say thursday in a statement .
page suffer a heart attack nine day earlier and never regain consciousness .
'' she capture the imagination of a generation of man and woman with she free spirit and unabashed sensuality , '' roesler say .
page , with shoulder-length jet-black hair and bang , combine sweetness and sexuality in a series of now-legendary poster and photograph in the 1950s , include as one of the inaugural centerfold in hugh heffner 's new magazine playboy , which name she '' the model of the century . '' .
the nice-naughty image -- a sweet and beguiling smile match with a curvacious figure and page 's propensity for burlesque film and bondage image -- prove highly combustible on the eve of america 's sexual revolution .
in the late 1950s page become one of the most photographed woman in the world , and she popularity soar even as she leave the limelight nearly half a century ago .
page later say she be puzzle by she effect on pop culture .
'' i have no idea why i be the only model who have have so much fame so long after quit work , '' she tell the lo angele time in 2006 .
in she old age , she refuse to be photograph , preserve she mythic status .
'' i want to be remember , as i be when i be young and in my golden time ... .
i want to be remember as the woman who change people 's perspective concern nudity in its natural form . '' .
bear in 1923 in nashville , tennessee , bettie mae page be one of six child from a impoverished family .
after earn she university degree , she work as a secretary and aspire to hollywood stardom but never make it as a actress .
a screen test at 20th century fox go badly , with a producer offer she a break in return for sexual favor -- she refuse .
filmmaker and aviator howard hughe also doggedly pursued page but she rebuff he as well .
'' i never return any of he call , '' she once say .
'' i guess people will say i make a mistake .
but sex be part of love , and you should not go around do it unless you be in love .
i certainly do not . '' .
she pose for she first pin-up photo in 1947 and by the 1950s provocative picture of she in bikinis or sexy lingerie be wildly popular , tack up on the wall of locker room , student hall , office and military barracks .
although the picture -- which sometimes play on bondage theme -- seem tame by contemporary standard , they raise alarm in a more conservative era , prompt we senator to investigate pornography .
page be subpoena to appear before a senate committee head by prominent democrat este kefauver but in the end never have to testify .
for page , the bondage photo be harmless fun .
'' but honestly , who could take any of this seriously ? '' she say year later , accord to she official website .
'' i never understand how anyone believe those pose be sexy .
to be tie up ?
i do not get it . '' .
by 1958 , at the peak of she fame , page vanish from public view and she modeling day end .
she become a born-again christian but struggle with marital problem and suffer from depression and violent mood swing .
in 1992 , she leave a california mental hospital have be diagnose as a paranoid schizophrenic .
in the 1990s , a lawyer who later become she agent , mark roesler , use page 's famous image for a lucrative licensing and merchandising deal that help she financially and renew she fame .
the merchandise , include a clothing line , along with a film in 2005 .
'' the notorious bettie page , '' help introduce she to a new generation in the united state and abroad .
'' she be reclusive and private , so without intend to be , without quite understand how , she modeling work make she a pivotal figure in the sexual revolution that begin in the 1950s , '' roesler say .
friday , june 7 , 2013 .
hollywood '' be mermaid esther william die .
champion swimmer turn top box - office draw in 40s and 50s .
esther william , the swimming champion turn actress who star in glittering and aquatic technicolour musical of the 1940s and 1950s , have die .
she be 91 .
william , whose experience as a young swimming champion lead to a career of hollywood '' aqua - musical '' design just for she , die yesterday in beverly hill , california , at the age of 91 , she spokesman say .
she die peacefully in she sleep and have be in decline health due to old age , spokesman harlan boll say .
it be the pool -- and wartime pinup picture of she in bathing suit -- that make she popular .
william in a bathing suit become a favourite pinup of we people in world war ii , and she popularity continue afterward .
bettie page , the raven-haired pin-up whose naughty-but-nice romp with whip , garter and high heel titillate a generation of young man in the post-war year , have die at the age of 85 after suffer a heart attack earlier this month and slip into a coma .
she career , which some claim lay the foundation for the sexual revolution that sweep america in the 1960 , start almost by accident after she discover that pose for amateur photographer in provocative pose and risque attire make she more money than secretarial work .
ms page 's fame be set after she be adopt by irve klaw and he sister , paula , in 1951 .
the couple run a manhattan mail order business offering dirty picture .
later , she be feature by playboy as a centrefold , include a 1955 image of she wink under a santa hat .
'' bettie be one of the magazine 's early playmate , and become a iconic figure , influence notion of beauty and fashion , '' hugh hefner , the magazine 's founder , say on hearing of she death .
'' she passing be very sad . '' .
ms page disappear for decade at the end of the fifty , suffer serial broken marriage and devote herself to christianity .
even in she twilight year she suffer bout of depression and ill health but be rediscover in the late nineteen eighty .
she would occasionally make public appearance to sign photograph of herself as popular interest in she suddenly take off again .
to she astonishment , ms page have recently attain cult status .
madonna , uma thurman and demi moore be among contemporary star who have at some time adopt bettie page pose , while in 2006 a movie , the notorious bettie page , feature gretchen mol in the title role .
ms page have be admit to hospital originally for treatment for pneumonia and be set to be release and send home on 2 december when she suffer she heart attack .
a representative say she never recover consciousness and die late on thursday .
'' she capture the imagination of a generation of man and woman with she free spirit and unabashed sensuality , '' she agent , mark roesler , say yesterday .
'' she be the embodiment of beauty . '' .
even though she concede to the occasional public event , she never agree to have she photograph take again .
'' i do not want to be photograph in my old age , '' she say in 1998 .
'' i feel the same way with old movie star .
it make I sad .
we want to remember they when they be young . '' .
after she early career peak , m page become exhibit number one in a congressional hearing into so-called immoral activity in washington .
the controversy prompt she disappearance from public view .
it be while live in florida that she have she born-again experience and committed herself to the church and to the ministry of the rev billy graham .
in she later year , she defend the trade she pioneer .
'' i never think it be shameful .
i feel normal .
it be better than pound a typewriter eight hour a day , which get monotonous , '' she tell playboy in 1998 .
as for be feature undressed , that seem fine too .
'' god approve of nudity , '' she say .
'' adam and eve in the garden of eden , they be naked as jaybird . '' .
hollywood mermaid , esther william die at 91 .
june 06 , 2013 .
esther william , whose experience as a young swimming champion lead to a career of hollywood aqua - musical design just for she , die on thursday in beverly hill , california , at the age of 91 , she spokesman say .
william , one of the biggest box - office star of the 1940s and 1950s , die peacefully in she sleep and have be in decline health due to old age , spokesman harlan boll say .
it be the pool - and wartime pinup picture of she in bathing suit - that make she popular .
bettie page , whose trademark raven hair and risque lingerie and bondage pin-up photo make she a cult favorite , die thursday night at a los angele hospital - nine day after suffer a heart attack .
she be 85 .
page be bear betty mae page in nashville , tennessee on april 22 , 1923 .
smart and ambitious as a teenager , she be the salutatorian of she high school graduation class and be vote '' most likely to succeed . '' .
she earn a scholarship to attend george peabody college , where she study act .
page 's famous pin-up day last from 1951-1957 , where she slinky , curvy and scantily-clad or nude body grace magazine include wink , beauty parade , twitter and playboy .
the heff crown page playmate of the month in january of 1955 .
the same year she be also name , '' miss pinup girl of the world . '' .
she photo and film work often depict page in pin-up , bondage or sadomasochistic theme , include the iconic -lrb- and highest selling -rrb- image of the model show gag and bind in a web of rope from the leopard bikini bind film .
heffner tell the ap on thursday , '' i think that she be a remarkable lady , a iconic figure in pop culture who influence sexuality , taste in fashion , someone who have a tremendous impact on we society ... .
she be a very dear person . '' .
page married twice ; the first marriage to navy man billy neal last from 1943 to 1947 , and she second to armond walterson in 1958 to 1963 .
after the collapse of she second marriage , she suffer a nervous breakdown and soon after become a born-again christian .
after attend bible school , she want to serve as a missionary but be turn down because she have be divorce .
instead , she work full-time for evangelist billy graham 's ministry .
bettie 's life and photo enjoy a revival of interest in 1976 with the publishing of the book , a nostalgic look at bettie page .
page be also celebrate in the 2006 hbo movie , the notorious bettie page , star gretchen mol .
esther william , who swim to stardom in the 1940 , die at 91 .
june 6 , 2013 11 : 34pm .
pinup girl william be the star of wwii - era aquatic musical and help make the sport of synchronize swimming popular .
bettie page , the 1950s pin-up model who help set the stage for the 1960s sexual revolution , have die .
she be 85 .
she agent , mark roesler , say page die yesterday at a los angele hospital after suffer a heart attack on december 2 .
she never regain consciousness .
page , who become religious and suffer depression in later life , spend year in a mental institution , inspire the 2005 film the notorious bettie page .
she become a cult figure for magazine photograph of she bikini and see-through lingerie , which be tack on wall across the we .
after resurface in the 1990s , she occasionally grant interview but refuse to allow she picture to be take .
'' i do not want to be photograph in my old age , '' she say in 1998 .
'' i feel the same way with old movie star ... .
it make I sad .
we want to remember they when they be young . '' .
she photo include a centrefold in the january 1955 issue of the then fledgling playboy magazine , as well as controversial sadomasochistic pose .
the latter help contribute to she mysterious disappearance from the public eye , which last for decade and include year during which she battle mental illness and become a born-again christian .
playboy founder hugh hefner say .
'' she be a remarkable lady , a iconic figure in pop culture who influence sexuality , taste in fashion , someone who have a tremendous impact on we society .
she be a very dear person . '' .
roesler say page have be in hospital for three week with pneumonia and be about to be release when she suffer the heart attack on december 2 .
she career begin in october 1950 when she take a break from she job as a secretary in a new york office to take a walk along the beach at coney island .
a amateur photographer name jerry tibb admire the 27-year-old 's firm , curvy body and ask she to pose .
look back on the career that follow , she tell playboy in 1998 .
'' i never think it be shameful .
i feel normal .
it be just that it be much better than pound a typewriter eight hour a day . '' .
nudity do not bother she , she say , explain .
'' god approve of nudity .
adam and eve in the garden of eden , they be naked as jaybird . '' .
they cut she hair into the dark bang that become she signature and pose she in spiked heel and little else .
she be photograph with a whip in she hand , and in one session she be spreadeagle between two tree , she foot dangle .
'' i think my arm and leg would come out of they socket , '' she say later .
moralist denounce the photo as perversion , and senator este kefauver of tennessee , page 's home state , launch a congressional investigation .
page quickly retreat from public view , later say she be hound by federal agent who wave she nude photo in she face .
and she say she believe that , at 34 , she day as '' the girl with the perfect figure '' be nearly over .
she move to florida in 1957 and marry a much younger man , after a early marriage to she high school sweetheart have end in divorce .
she second marriage also fail , as do a third , and she suffer a nervous breakdown .
bear on april 22 , 1923 , in nashville , tennessee , page say she grow up in a family so poor '' we be lucky to get a orange in we christmas stocking '' .
esther william - esther william : million dollar mermaid swimmer and actress die aged 91 .
07 june 2013 .
golden girl of screen and pool , esther william , have die peacefully in she sleep aged 91 .
it have be confirm by publicist harlan boll that the 1940s hollywood actress and record - set swimmer , esther william , die on 6th june in she sleep .
stunning william quickly achieve movie success and pin - up status , due to she swimmer physique be regularly snap in bathing suit .
famous 1950 pin up star betty page have die in lo angele , aged 85 .
the iconic model know for she provocative pose be credit for help to pave the way for the sexual revolution of the nineteen sixty .
she be admit to hospital last month suffer from pnuemonia , and last week suffer a heart attack and never regain consciousness .
she agent mark roesler siad : '' with deep personal sadness i must announce that my dear friend and client bettie page pass away at 18:41 this evening -lrb- 02:41 gmt friday -rrb- in a los angele hospital '' .
'' she capture the imagination of a generation with she free spirit and unabashed sensuality ... .
she be the embodiment of beauty '' .
hugh hefner be report as say about page .
'' i think that she be a remarkable lady , a iconic figure in pop culture who influence sexuality , taste in fashion , someone who have a tremendous impact on we society '' .
page be marry three time but have no child .
actress esther william die at 91 .
10 : 10 be pdt 6 / 6 / 2013 .
the champion swimmer star in such film as bathing beauty , '' take I out to the ball game and million dollar mermaid . '' .
actress and champion swimmer esther william , who showcase a combination of glamour and athleticism by star in several spectacular and splashy mgm musical of the 1940 and '50s , have die .
she be 91 .
william die peacefully in she sleep thursday in beverly hill , family spokesman harlan boll announce .
legendary pinup queen bettie page die of pneumonia at the age of 85 in a los angele , california , hospital thursday , a week after suffer a heart attack , accord to she agent .
pinup queen bettie page be credit with help to usher in the sexual revolution .
'' she capture the imagination of a generation of man and woman with she free spirit and unabashed sensuality , '' say agent mark roesler in a write statement .
'' she be the embodiment of beauty . '' .
page , say to be one of the most photographed people of the past century , become a recluse in recent decade .
yet , she image continue to be use around the world to market bettie page action figure , clothing line and other merchandise .
'' she popularity as a underground , guilty pleasure phenomenon have continue to soar despite the fact that the reclusive page disappear almost a half century ago , lead many to believe that one of the most photographed individual of the 20th century be already dead . '' .
roesler say .
the web site , bettiepage.com , log about 20 million hit a month , roesler say .
a tvguide.com poll recently place bettie page as the '' ultimate sex goddess , '' outscore other such as marilyn monroe .
page be bear to a poor family in tennessee on april 22 , 1923 .
while she birth certificate spell she name '' betty , '' she change the spelling later in life to '' bettie . '' .
at a time when few woman pursue a college education , page earn a bachelor of art degree in education from peabody college in tennessee in 1944 , accord to she official biography .
she teaching career , however , be hamper by she look , she say .
'' i could not control my student , especially the boy , '' she be quote as say .
after she modeling career end , page return to peabody college to work on a master 's degree , the bio say .
she southern drawl and a refusal to sleep with a hollywood producer hamper she act career , accord to she bio .
'' i do not like he look , '' page say .
'' i would not have go to bed with he anyway .
he be a creep .
he drive off in he big car and scold I .
you will be sorry . ' .
i be not . '' .
page say she regret not accept studio boss jack warner 's offer of another screen-test , but it come while she be try to save she marriage to she first husband , billy neal .
she modeling breakthrough begin after she divorce neal in 1947 when she meet a police officer whose hobby be photography .
he suggest the black bang , which become she trademark , she bio say .
not long after , she image be everywhere , grace magazine cover and locker pin-up .
page wear nothing but a santa hat in playboy 's january 1955 centerfold .
playboy founder hugh hefner say she appearance in he magazine 's first year be a milestone .
'' she become , in time , a american icon , she winning smile and effervescent personality apparent in every pose , '' hefner say .
'' a kinky connection be add by irve klaw 's spanking , fetish and bondage photo , which become part of the bettie page mystique , '' hefner say .
'' they be playful parody that be now perceive as the early inspiration for madonna 's excursion into the realm of sexual perversion . '' .
perhaps the most memorable photo of page be she bondage pose , which she say be all pretend .
'' i never understand how anyone believe those pose be sexy , '' she later say .
'' to be tie up ?
i do not get it . '' .
'' she be a remarkable woman , truly someone that change the social norm , not only here in this country , but also around the world , '' roesler say .
'' while jackie robinson be change the racial attitude , bettie page be change we attitude on sex .
she become a jame dean type of rebel ' figure as she allow people to be less inhibit and look at sex in a different way . '' .
saucy photo of paige in skimpy clothing or none at all help to lead the way for the sexual revolution of the nineteen sixty .
page suddenly disappear from the scene in 1958 .
it be only decade later reveal that she re-emerge to explain that she undergo a religious conversion and move to florida .
she life take a dark turn start in 1978 after she third marriage fail , roesler say .
page go through '' some mental instability , violent mood swing , and serious trouble with the law '' and be eventually diagnose as a paranoid schizophrenic , accord to she bio .
page reappear in public in december 2003 for playboy 's 50th anniversary party , where she make a grand entrance with anna nicole smith .
it be the only time in the past 50 year that page allow she photograph to be take , roesler say .
a private funeral service be plan for tuesday .
page will bury at westwood cemetery in lo angele , just a few foot away from monroe .
june 06 , 2013 .
esther william , swim star , die at 91 .
bettie page , the 1950s pinup girl whose natural look and risque fetish pose trigger a cult follow four decade after she turn she back on modeling , have die .
she be 85 .
page die late yesterday in a los angele hospital after suffer a heart attack more than a week ago , she agent mark roesler say in a statement .
'' she capture the imagination of a generation of man and woman with she free spirit and unabashed sensuality , '' say roesler .
'' she be the embodiment of beauty . '' .
the busty '' dark angel '' from tennessee be one of the most photographed woman of she era , strike a chord with man 's camera club and spark outrage in congress for she nude snapshot .
page 's image , complete with black hair bang and naughty smile , appear on magazine cover , play card , wallpaper and comic book in the 1990s , inspiring retrospective tribute from celebrity such as madonna , demi moore and uma thurman .
the college-educated beauty queen who disappear from the public eye after 1957 be unaware of she renew popularity until '' entertainment tonight '' broadcast a television segment about she almost 40 year later .
she have disown she glamour lifestyle after become a born-again christian in 1959 , and later battle mental illness in florida and california .
'' bettie page be the last great icon of the 1950s , '' jame swanson , co-author of '' bettie page .
the life of a pinup legend , '' say in a 1996 interview with nbc 's real life program .
'' like jame dean and marilyn monroe , she bring something modern to the era .
she be like the girl next door , the greatest american pin-up and that be why she be eternal '' .
early year .
bettie mae page be bear on april 22 , 1923 , in nashville , tennessee .
the second of six child , she help raise she younger sibling while the family travel around the u.s. in search of work .
page 's mother place she daughter in a orphanage after divorce she husband , who be sentence to two year in a atlanta penitentiary for steal a policeman 's car .
at the age of 10 , page begin to mimic actress and perform song for the other girl at the orphanage before she mother , who work as a hairdresser during the day and in a laundry at night , reclaim she child after a year .
page take refuge from she traumatic family life in local community center , where she learn to cook , sew and study hard enough to top she class at high school .
she be a member of the drama club , help edit the school newspaper and be vote '' the most likely to succeed . '' .
she win a $ 100 scholarship to peabody college in nashville , where she graduate with a bachelor of art degree in education .
three husband .
in february 1943 , she marry billy neal , the first of she three husband , and move to san francisco , where she have she first modeling assignment for a local furrier .
while neal serve in the mariana island during world war ii , page live in nashville , miami and port au prince , haiti .
in 1947 , she file for divorce and move to new york .
three year later while walk on coney island , she meet police officer jerry tibb who have a interest in photography and assemble page 's first portfolio .
tibb introduce she to camera club , man 's hobbyist group that sometimes act as a front for erotic photography , and page 's career take off .
she then appear in publisher robert harrison 's girlie magazine wink , flirt and beauty parade .
in january 1955 , she be the centerfold model in hugh hefner 's fledgling playboy magazine , one month before actress jayne mansfield appear as the publication 's playmate .
'' she have a saucy innocence that be both contemporary and provocative , and also nostalgic , '' hefner say .
media mogul .
page , who claim she ignore media mogul howard hughe 's request for a screen test in 1955 because she do not want to sleep with he , also study act under herbert berghoff at sea cliff summer theater on long island .
the apprenticeship help she gain part in new york stage production and on television , once appear on '' the jackie gleason show . '' .
some of she most celebrated snapshot be take in 1954 during a session with photographer bunny yeager at the africa usa wildlife park in boca raton , florida .
they include nude pose with two cheetah and scene in a leopard-patterned jungle outfit that she make herself .
she '' dark angel '' image stem from bondage and fetish session for irve klaw 's movie star news .
klaw , who pay $ 80 for four hour ' work at he studio in greenwich village , new york , require sadomasochistic shot to meet the demand of high profile , educate client .
he sister paula create the set and help page develop the fetish image .
very sweet ' .
'' paula be one of the nicest woman i have ever know in my life , '' page say .
'' only paula be allow to tie we up .
she be very gentle , caring and considerate .
she never tie any rope too tight .
she be very sweet . '' .
a congressional investigation initiate by tennessee senator este kefauver in 1955 call page as a witness and put klaw out of business , though he have no case to answer because he model be never nude .
the evidence of obscenity have include more explicit pose that page have do for camera club after a drinking session one night at a party .
the congressional probe be say to have contribute to she decision to give up modeling .
throughout the 1960 , page attend bible school in lo angele , chicago and oregon , help teenage mother and visit jail .
she breakdown in 1972 after divorce third husband harry lear lead to four month ' treatment in florida 's jackson memorial hospital and 20 month in patton state hospital in san bernardino , california .
she also have numerous run-in with the law , include a charge of assault with a deadly weapon after brandish a knife at she landlady who do not provide page with rent receipt .
pop-culture revival .
page 's pop-culture revival emanate from artwork by robert blue and olivia de berardinis , who draw on she fantasy and fetish work .
david steven also feature page in '' the rocketeer '' comic from the early 1980s , prompt a avalanche of similar publication base on she persona .
in later year , she live in california and collect royalty from she work as a model after sign with curtis management group .
in 2005 , time warner inc. and hbo film release '' the notorious bettie page , '' a feature film star gretchen mol as page .
page avoid the camera lens after she modeling year , though she be photograph with hefner at playboy 's 50th anniversary celebration in 2003 .
'' i want people to remember I as i be , '' she say in a playboy interview in 1998 .
page be divorce three time and have no child .
bettie page , one of entertainment 's original sex kitten , the 1950s pin-up queen who many credit with have pave the way for the sexual revolution of the follow decade , pass away thursday , december 11 , at age 85 .
bettie page die thursday of pneumonia at a los angele area hospital , longtime agent mark roesler say .
she have suffer a heart attack earlier in december and never regain consciousness .
he say he and page 's family agree to take she off life support .
roesler describe she as '' the embodiment of beauty , '' and enthuse that she '' capture the imagination of a generation of man and woman with she free spirit and unabashed sensuality . '' .
bettie page 's signature raven-black long hair , she bang , the red lipstick , she full , seductively round body and she provocative pose make she into a bona fide pin-up queen in the nineteen fifty .
she fame endure throughout the decade , even after she retreat from the spotlight and struggle with mental illness , move around the country and become a born-again christian .
she be bear betty mae page on april 22 , 1923 in nashville , tennessee , in a impoverished family with six child .
despite be confront with a abusive father who eventually go to prison and have to live in orphanage at time , page grow up a great fan of hollywood movie and be successful in school , as salutatorian of she high school graduate class .
she classmate vote she '' most likely to succeed . '' .
she receive a art degree with peabody college in nashville and start modeling in the 1940s after move to san francisco with she first husband .
they divorce in 1947 and page continue she modeling work in new york .
as chance would have it , photo from a shoot with miami photographer bunny yeager end up in the page of playboy .
this would forever change page 's life , as she become on of the two-year-old magazine 's first centerfold in the january 1955 issue .
kneel before a christmas tree , wear a santa hat and a playful wink -lrb- and that be all -rrb- and hold a christmas tree ornament , playboy founder hugh hefner describe the layout as '' a milestone in the history of the magazine . '' .
a few year later , page model in bondage and sadomasochistic pose .
this cause great controversy , as the photograph be criticize by some as perversion and a congressional investigation be launch into pornography .
by the late 1950 , bettie page have virtually disappear from the public eye , have retreat to focus on she own personal life .
she become a born-again christian and work for billy graham 's ministry , among other .
she marry two more time yet both union fail .
begin with the 1970 , she battle mental illness and be diagnose as paranoid schizophrenic .
during she retreat from the spotlight , page be completely oblivious of the fascination she have ignite in the public .
she make a comeback almost two decade later , sign memorabilia at convention and occasionally grant interview .
she refuse to have she photograph take .
page have no child .
a private funeral service will be hold tuesday , dec. 16 , at westwood memorial cemetery .
esther william dead : technicolor star die at age 91 .
06 / 06 / 13 07 : 05 pm et edt .
the self - describe million dollar mermaid , '' whose wholesome beauty , shapely figure and aquatic skill launch a entire genre of movie -- the technicolor aqua musical -- die thursday at 91 .
she also be a favorite swimsuit pinup for gi in world war ii , and a refreshing presence among mgm stellar gallery -- warm , breezy , with a frankness and self - deprecate humor that delighted interviewer .
as news of she death spread thursday , pinup shot of she circulate on twitter .
lama son , actor lorenzo lama , tweet thursday : my stepmom esther william pass peacefully this morning .
many people be shock and sadden to learn that beloved pin-up icon bettie page pass away yesterday in lo angele after linger in a coma for a week follow a heart attack .
she be 85 .
personally , i be not surprise because i think she die several year ago .
page be best know by she fan for she risque bondage film and picture , and she infamous sense of style , which continue to influence everyone from mortician goth girl to rockabilly chola in my high school to dita von teese , who be complete act be utterly rip off from she .
to I , she will always be the kooky , naive christian portray by gretchen mol in the notorious bettie page .
but more than that , she be trailblazer for sexy unconventional woman everywhere .
without she , the suicide girl would not exist , although it be questionable whether that be a real loss .
i choose the above picture to memorialize she because everyone love monkey .
rip bettie !
i will drink a martini and listen to a cramp song in you memory tonight .
esther william , swim champion , actress , pin - up icon die ; fan and family mourn .
june 6 , 2013 3 : 05 pm edt .
esther william , swim champion , actress , and pin - up icon , have die .
she be 91 .
william , 91 , pass away early thursday in she sleep , accord to she publicist .
throughout wwius , she be a popular pinup for gi , and she personality and self - deprecate wit keep she popular afterwards .
fan and family mourn she passing , but william have a long , full life .
while apple 's final keynote address at the annual macworld convention in san francisco do not contain the iphone-related announcement many have hope for , we be give all of the detail on apple 's latest revamp to they largest and most powerful macbook pro .
apple 's senior vice president of worldwide product marketing , philip schiller , deliver the address and detail the major revision to the 17 '' macbook pro .
first off , the 17 '' macbook pro will be , as apple put it , '' the world 's thinnest and lightest 17-inch notebook , '' come in at less than a inch thick -lrb- 0.98 '' to be precise -rrb- and with a overall weight of 6.6 pound .
like it be smaller sibling that be give a facelift back in october , the new 17 '' macbook pro will utilize a aluminum unibody design that bring the behemoth notebook into the new , '' greener '' future .
the new 17 '' macbook pro achieve epeat gold status that identify the device as a environmentally responsible solution .
as part of its epeat gold status , the new 17 '' model be reportedly free of many of the harmful toxin find in comparable notebook that have adverse effect on the environment during disposal .
as part of the new macbook family , the 17 '' macbook pro incorporate a arsenic and mercury-free glass led-backlit display .
but beyond the environmental improvement , the biggest news regard the latest macbook pro be its revolutionary battery system .
through the use of advanced chemistry , intelligent monitoring , adaptive charge technology , and a multi-cell design that apple claim achieve three time the industry standard in battery life .
the new battery system will deliver eight hour on a single charge and can be recharge up to 1,000 time in a single lifespan .
on the performance side , the 17 '' macbook pro have similar performance spec to previous macbook pro model .
the processor , memory , and drive spec on the new model be as follow .
the new model incorporate all of the usual macbook pro luxury , such as built-in isight , three usb port , mini-display port output , a firewire 800 port , and expresscard/34 support .
similar to the other macbook model , the trackpad have be update to incorporate apple 's new multi-touch gesture and buttonless design .
the new 17 '' macbook pro will come in one default configuration with a msrp of $ 2,799 , however , user will be able to upgrade they notebook with apple 's built-to-order program .
optional upgrade include a 8gb of ddr3 memory , a 320gb hard drive , a 128gb or 256gb solid state drive , and various display output alternative .
if the glass led-backlit display cause too much glare for you , apple also offer a anti-glare display on the 17 '' macbook pro for $ 50 extra .
the new 17 '' macbook pro will be ship at the end of this month .
new 13 - inch , 15 - inch macbook pro spec upgrade : ivy bridge , usb 3 -lsb- wwdc12 -rsb- .
-lrb- 10 : 27 be pdt , jun 11th 2012 -rrb- .
follow a refresh to the macbook air lineup , apple phil schiller unveil a revamp macbook pro today at wwdc12 .
the update machine boast intel ivy bridge 2 . 7ghz -lrb- turbo boost up to 3 . 7ghz -rrb- , usb 3 . 0 , nvidia geforce gt 650m graphic , and 7 hour of battery life .
the 13 - inch macbook pro spec upgrade cost 1199 , while the 15 - inch will sell for 1499 .
the 15 - inch be offer in 1799 and 2199 model with beefier quad - core chip .
the outwards design of these upgrade macbook pro have stay the same .
this not the revolutionary macbook pro the rumor mill suggest , but that because this notebook not the only laptop apple announce for the macbook pro lineup today .
there also a revolutionary new macbook pro with a thinner profile and retina display .
apple unveil latest macbook pro , io 6 for iphone and ipad .
june 11 , 2012 at 12 : 36 pm et .
after a witty intro by siri herself , apple ceo tim cook take the stage in san francisco to welcome developer and announce new stuff .
cook have a lot to say about the success of the app program , with 30 billion download of 650 , 000 distinct app worldwide .
once cook rattle off the spec , they play a video about the success of app , from one that a blind man build to help see - impaired people get around , to the successful airbnb , a place for couch surfer to find home away from home , to a speech therapy tool for ipad that help a little girl learn how to communicate .
it may be marketing , but part be truly touching .
needless to say , the developer applaud profusely .
we would like to thank everyone in the developer community for the incredible app that you do for we , '' say cook .
new macbook .
next , global marketing vp phil schiller announce update to the macbook line .
the macbook air get 3rd - gen core chip , up to 2ghz dual - core i7 .
it also get storage up to 512 gb flash storage , with 2x read speed .
and it get usb 3 . 0 and a 720p camera .
the new model start ship today .
the 13 - inch and 15 - inch macbook pro get ivy bridge processor , a new - generation geforce graphic card and usb 3 . 0 , while the price stay the same .
but the big news be the next generation macbook pro , which be about as thin as a macbook air , with a 15 - inch retina display of 2880 x 1800 pixel .
it ridiculously gorgeous and thin .
but it not just about the display and thinness .
there a quad - core i7 chip up to 2 . 7ghz ; up to 16gb of ram ; the new geforce kepler graphic and 768gb of internal flash storage .
yow !
battery life sound right : 7 hour on a charge , with 30 day of standby .
and as for port : sd , hdmi , usb 3 , a new magsafe 2 and two thunderbolt port .
there be no optical drive .
read into that what you will , but clearly apple will not be support blu - ray anytime soon -lrb- or ever -rrb- .
adobe , autodesk and other be develop app to work with the new retina display .
-lrb- aside to the creative people : hooray for photoshop be in sync with mac development ! -rrb- .
os x 10 . 8 mountain lion .
after the pulse - race macbook unveiling , apple exec take thing down a notch to discuss feature of os x 10 . 8 , mountain lion , include drill - down on stuff that have already be reveal .
for a quick look at those feature , have a look here .
some awesome one include message , dictation , share and airplay mirroring , which let you send up to 1080p video from mac to apple tv .
the new safari be great : you can click a cloud icon to see tab open on other device such as ipad and iphone , and if you zoom out , each tab become a thumbnail , so you can easily get to the tab you want .
mountain lion will launch next month , and will cost 19 . 99 .
have get more detail on mountain lion upcome release here .
ios 6 for iphone and ipad .
follow mountain lion , svp of ios software scott forstall take the stage to unveil io 6 , something that have be somewhat confirm , but without any detail .
first on he agenda be sirus : in eight month , siri have be study up and learn a lot , '' say forstall .
now , in ios 6 , you can ask score of last giant game , even batting average of a give player , team standing .
impressive -lrb- if it work in my house -rrb- .
forstall : who be taller , lebron or kobe ? '' .
siri : lebron jame appear to be slightly taller . '' .
in addition to sport , siri do more with restaurant detail , and be partner with yelp for review and opentable for reservation .
yes , you can make dinner reservation with siri .
good news for a food person like myself .
for movie , rotten tomato review be integrate , and you can tap inside sirus to watch trailer .
best of all , sirus can now launch app .
new drive mode for sirus : eye free , '' say forstall .
button on steer wheel of some car manufacturer include gm , toyota , honda , land rover , audus , mercedes benz and bmw .
siri will also speak 15 language include korean , italian , mandarin and cantonese .
facebook integration be next .
integrate within io 6 -lrb- photo , calendar , contact , etc . -rrb- and even the app store and itune , where you can like stuff , instead of ping it like nobody do now .
forstall say facebook be come to mac os , too , though it be mention earlier .
apple be build its own mapping service , complete with fresh map of the whole globe , plus build - in turn - by - turn navigation , so you not need a third - party app anymore .
there also crowd - sourced traffic datum -lrb- anonymously gather , say apple -rrb- tie into the service , so you have realistic eta and smart route .
there also a beautiful new photo mapping feature call flyover which let you view major landmark in 3 - d .
not sure if they get you house in there , but it gorgeous to look upon .
more io 6 stuff , in rapid succession .
reply with message - give you the option to send canned message to caller .
also a remind I later feature with time and geo - tag reminder for ignore call .
do not disturb - phone not bother you with call and alert , include plenty of control -lrb- no call at all or just call from favorite , etc -rrb- .
facetime enable over cellular with ios 6 .
apple be unifying phone number and apple ids - - you can now answer call on ipad or mac - - it huge news but apt to depress the mobile carrier .
in mobile safari , there now photo update , and there now more cross - talk between app and browser .
share photo stream - - think instagramm style comment and integration with mac , iphone , apple tv etc .
vip contact and a flag mailbox for the most important people in you life .
insert photo and video into mail more easily .
single app mode and guide access let you lock people into one app , for parental control , education , testing , museum tour , etc .
forstall introduce a whole new app , too , call passbook .
code for board pass -lrb- unite , amtrak -rrb- , store card -lrb- starbuck , target -rrb- , ticket -lrb- fandango , sf giant -rrb- , reservation -lrb- w hotel -rrb- , etc . be all collect in one app .
when you visit the store or venue , the app automatically pull up the right card .
and when you do with a give card , there a cute shredding animation .
after week of speculation about what would be introduce at macworld , apple inc. take the wrap off of update itune and ilife software and unveil a 17-inch macbook pro on tuesday .
the cupertino , calif.-based company -lrb- nasdaq : aapl -rrb- say itune song will now have three-tiered pricing : 69 cent , 99 cent and $ 1.29 , depend on how new or desirable the song be judge to be .
all song offer on itune plus will be free of digital rights management software .
user of the popular itune service will now also be able to download music over wifus and 3g network on the iphone .
apple claim that its new macbook pro be the thinnest and lightest 17-inch notebook computer available .
its new battery can run for up to eight hour on a charge and can be rechagr up to 1,000 time , the company say .
the new notebook be expect to ship in late january with a price tag of $ 2,799 for the base model that will have 4 gigabyte of ram and a 320 gigabyte hard drive .
the new version of ilife include change to its photo , movie and music software .
the update iphoto let user tag photo accord to who be in they or where they be take .
the place feature either pick up the tag from a camera 's gp system or the information can be put in manually .
the new iphoto software also support photo tag at social networking site facebook and flickr .
the second revamp ilife offering unveil at apple 's keynote tuesday morning be a new version of imovie , which allow new drag-and-drop editing feature , video stabilization , built-in theme and animated travel map .
ilife 's new version of garageband music software add hd video tutorial for guitar and piano teach by pop star include sting and norah jone .
apple also roll out a update version of iwork that include a new online service that let user share document over the web .
deliver the keynote address at the macworld trade show be apple 's top marketing executive , philip schiller , who speak in the place of ceo steve job .
on monday job end week of new speculation about he health with a open letter say that he have a hormonal imbalance that have cause he to lose weight .
last month apple say job would not be make he highly-anticipated annual appearance at the show , a report that renew rumor about he health that surface when he appear gaunt earlier in the year .
apple unveil new macbook pro with ivy bridge at wwdc .
post jun 11th , 2012 at 1 : 23 pm .
apple be certainly make wwdc a hardware conference this year - - it just unveil a refresh of the exist macbook pro run intel newer ivy bridge processor on the san francisco gathering opening day .
the 13 - and 15 - inch portable run up to 2 . 7ghz quad core i7 -lrb- turbo up to 3 . 7ghz -rrb- , carry up to 8gb of ram and have geforce gt 650m - base graphic 60 percent faster than the previous generation .
like the new macbook air , they tout usb 3 . 0 port .
if you more comfortable with apple conventional macbook pro design than the new variety , apple will ask 1 , 099 for the base 13 - inch version and 1 , 799 for a 15 - inch version , with a upgrade 15 - inch model go for 2 , 199 .
all of they be ship today - - be not see any mention of a update 17 - inch version , so it may have be cast aside .
apple 's big announcement at macworld yesterday be not a new imac , mini or netbook , all of which have be rumour , but a battery .
the firm announce a widely expect refresh of its 17in macbook pro , with a battery that the firm say will offer eight hour of operation , but which be not removable from the case .
the battery , base on conventional lithium polymer technology commonly find in laptop and mobile phone , have be integrate into the case to make the device thinner while increase battery life , accord to apple senior vice president of marketing phil schiller .
apple have also introduce a separate chip that monitor the power use by each cell and adjust the charge current accordingly , which the firm say extend the life of the battery .
the macworld crowd do not let out its characteristic whoop of excitement when schiller announce the battery , even when he say that its capacity for 1,000 full recharge - three time the average achieve by other notebook - would give the average battery a five-year life .
however , one mac customer from the show floor be sceptical of the claim .
'' apple say five year , but for some it might only be two or three , '' he say .
'' look at the way guy like we travel . '' .
apple will offer a p135 take-back and replacement service for the battery .
the keynote be decidedly low-key this year , be apple 's last follow a decision to pull out from the idg-run show .
other than the macbook pro , the company concentrate on enhancement to its iwork package , include a beta version of iwork.com .
the service let user share iwork file , include those in microsoft office format , and to comment on each other 's work .
glaringly absent at macworld be refresh of the now ageing mac minus and the imac desktop line .
new macbook air model officially unveil with ivy bridge upgrade .
as rumor , new 11 - inch and 13 - inch macbook air model have just be officially announce by apple at wwdc 2012 .
unsurprisingly , apple be keep pace with competitor with the addition of ivy bridge to its slimmest line of laptop .
the 11 - inch model will start at 999 with a 1 . 7ghz dual - core intel core i5 processor , 4gb ram , integrate intel hd 4000 graphic , 64gb flash storage , and 5 hour of battery life , with a higher - tier model for 1099 that contain 128gb of flash storage .
the 13 - inch model start at 1 , 199 and include the same 1440 x 900 display as the previous model , along with a 1 . 8ghz dual - core i5 processor , 4gb of ram , the same graphic as the 11 - inch model , and 128gb of storage .
1499 will get you a extra 256gb of storage ; spec be the same otherwise .
apple have also opt to include a pair of usb 3 . 0 port in its new air lineup .
apple say the new 11 - inch and 13 - inch macbook air model be available now .
apple on tuesday launch a refresh of the 17-inch macbook pro , give the company 's largest laptop a eight-hour battery life , a faster intel -lrb- nsdq : intc -rrb- processor , and better graphic capability .
the upgrade product be the only hardware announcement at the opening macworld keynote , which be deliver by phil schiller , senior vp for worldwide product marketing at apple .
break with tradition , the company announce late last month that co-founder and chief executive steve job would not kick off the trade show .
in addition , apple stun the industry by say this year would be its last appearance at macworld .
the absence of job lead many analyst to believe that apple would not make any major product announcement , and the prediction turn out to be correct , particularly in term of hardware .
the macbook be the only apple computer to get a upgrade , which be sure to disappoint fan who have also hope for update to the company 's mac minus and apple tv .
apple observer have expect the refresh of the 17-inch macbook pro , give that it be leave out of apple 's notebook event in october , when the company launch update of the 15-inch and 13.3-inch system .
but while some analyst say the larger laptop could get a big speed boost with a intel quad-core processor , apple stick with a intel dual-core chip , which have be upgrade to a 2.66-ghz core 2 duo processor with 6 mb of on-chip l2 cache .
buyer also have the option of a 2.93-ghz core 2 duo processor .
but the most innovative feature in the upgrade be a new battery that apple claim will last up to eight hour on a single charge and can be recharge up to 1,000 time , which mean up to a five-year lifespan .
rivalsdell -lrb- dell -rrb- and hewlett-packard -lrb- nyse : hpq -rrb- last year introduce laptop with similar battery life on a single charge .
the apple battery achieve its better performance by use custom-designed lithium-polymer cell that be 40 % larger than the previous generation .
however , to fit the battery in the system , apple have make it nonremovable , which may turn off some potential buyer .
because of the extend lifespan of the battery , apple say the macbook be more environmentally friendly than the previous generation , since the power supply do not have to be replace so often .
the notebook be less than a inch thick , weigh 6.6 pound , and feature a light-emitting diode screen with a $ 50 anti-glare option .
in addition , the system come with a nvidia geforce 9400m integrate graphic processor and a discrete nvidia 9600m gt processor .
switch to the latter give better graphic performance at the expense of about a hour of battery life .
apple unveil new macbook pro with ivy bridge at wwdc .
? apple be certainly make wwdc a hardware conference this year - - it just unveil a new macbook pro run intel newer ivy bridge processor on the san francisco gathering opening day . ?
i have use a broken mouse on my macbook pro for > 6 month in anticipation of this ... ... ... .
now if that pesky store . apple . com would just come back online !
with a 17-inch macbook pro update unveil at today 's macworld 2009 keynote , apple have finally bring a entire line of mac portable into view .
the largest member of the macbook family now come with a faster front-side bus and processor , nvidia graphic , displayport interconnect with hdcp content protection , led-backlit glossy display , and all of it wrap up inside apple 's unibody aluminum enclosure with glass trackpad .
for the first time ever , apple be also offer a 256gb sdd upgrade , while creative pro get to order anti-glare display version of the computer .
but everybody be expect this .
what be never dream of be eight hour of battery life that power this beast - up from five hour before .
the add juice come from a 40 % larger battery and a chip inside that '' talk '' to each cell and adjust the current accordingly .
this result in three time the number of charge and lifespan of the industry standard .
the rumor mill be way off this year when it predict a $ 600 mac netbook or iphone nano as apple 's '' one more thing '' for macworld 2009 .
instead , apple 's vice president of worldwide marketing phil schiller , appoint by steve job to deliver the keynote presentation in he absence , save the new 17-inch macbook pro as the company 's last surprise .
apple call the 17-inch macbook pro the '' world 's lightest and thinnest 17-inch notebook , '' and it be not exaggerate .
the computer be just 0.98-inches thin and weigh 6.6 pound the 17-inch macbook pro represent a marriage of all the technology use to build other unibody macbook and a large 17-inch display for application that require lot of screen real estate , like video editing and graphic design on-the-go .
the machine feature led-backlit glossy display that light up instantly when the lid be open , unlike warm up time require for the lcd cell .
it also feature built-in isight camera and 1920 x 1200 resolution - that be 78 percent more pixel than the 15-inch macbook pro and enough to display full 1080p hd content with room to spare .
in addition , it have a 700:1 contrast ratio and 60 % greater color gamut .
as be expect , the machine now rely exclusively on mini displayport interconnect with hdcp copy protection technology , and it come with glass trackpad and illuminate keyboard , all wrap in a sturdy unibody alluminum enclosure .
the new 17-inch macbook pro include a ultra-thin , widescreen glossy 1920 x 1200 display with 78 % more pixel than the 15-inch macbook pro and a 60 % greater color gamut that deliver desktop-quality color in a notebook .
the led-backlit display have brilliant instant-on performance , use up to 30 % less energy and eliminate the mercury find in industry standard fluorescent tube backlight .
a faster 1066 mhz front-side bus and newer generation of intel core 2 duo processor with 6mb shared l2 cache , clock at 2.66 ghz , bring a evolutionary speed increase over the previous model .
the notebook ship with 4gb of 1066 mhz ddr3 sdram , expandable to 8gb ; onboard graphic be the same -lrb- nvidia geforce 9400m and 9600m gt combo -rrb- as use in the 15-inch unibody macbook pro model .
the latter discreet chip come with 512mb gddr3 video memory and can be turn on to boost graphic performance when need , albeit at the expense of battery .
but when it come to battery , the lithium polymer one inside the 17-inch macbook pro squeeze up to 8 hour of runtime .
apple say it create 40 % larger environment-friendly battery without tax computer 's sleek form factor .
the battery feature adaptive charge technology and come with a chip inside that talk to each cell to adjust the current accordingly , result in a three time the charge and lifespan of the industry standard .
'' we have develop new battery technology that be better for the user and better for the environment , '' say apple ceo steve job .
'' apple 's advanced chemistry and innovative technology deliver up to eight hour of use on a full charge cycle and up to 1,000 recharge . '' .
the company claim that a '' properly maintain '' battery in this notebook will retain 80 % or more of its original capacity during a lifespan of up to 1,000 recharge cycle .
connectivity option include wireless 802.11 network courtesy of the built-in airport extreme card , a bluetooth 2.1 + edr module and gigabit ethernet .
the machine also have one firewire 800 port for connect video camera and other professional audio and video equipment , three usb 2.0 port , audio line in and out port , each support both digital and analog , and expresscard/34 expansion card slot .
storage feature include 320gb sata hdd run at 5400 rpm , with apple 's sudden motion sensor that prevent head to scratch platter surface if the machine be suddenly drop , and a slot-load 8x superdrive with double-layer support .
apple will start ship the new 17-inch macbook pro at the end of the month for $ 2,799 .
apple launch new macbook pro with ivy bridge , from 1 , 199 .
apple new macbook pro come with ivy bridge processor and the nvidia geforce gt650m graphic card .
june 11 , 2012 10 : 24 be pdt .
apple today launch its new macbook pro line .
announce at the company worldwide developer conference keynote , the new macbook pro will boast third - generation ivy bridge processor and the nvidia geforce gt650m graphic .
the line also include both usb 2 . 0 and usb 3 . 0 support .
unlike apple next - generation macbook pro , its 13 - and 15 - inch macbook pro not come with the retina display .
instead , the 13 - inch version boast 1 , 280 x 800 resolution , and come with the 2 . 5ghz dual - core intel core i5 processor .
the 15 - inch macbook pro offer a larger 1 , 440 x 900 display and start out with a 2 . 3ghz quad - core intel core i7 chip .
other than that , the difference across apple macbook pro line be all that major .
both the 13 - and 15 - inch option come with 500gb of storage , and deliver seven hour of battery life .
the cheapest 13 - and 15 - inch macbook pro start with 4gb of ram .
apple new macbook pro line start at 1 , 199 for the 13 - inch option , but can go much higher .
the 15 - inch macbook pro start off at 1 , 799 .
both device be available now .
today may be apple 's last macworld expo appearance but apple come bear gift .
at today 's keynote event , apple introduce a collection of new and refreshed software and hardware product to show off on stage .
apple 's first hardware announcement at macworld today introduce the 17 '' macbook pro .
build on the precision unibody enclosure , the pro be launch as the '' world 's thinnest 17 '' notebook , '' at only 0.98 inch thick , and also the '' world 's lightest , '' weigh in at 6.6 pound .
its lead backlit display support a 1920x1200 pixel resolution .
other feature include a 60 % greater color gamut , a 700:1 contrast ratio , improve view angle , and -lrb- thankfully -rrb- a matte screen option as well as a glossy option .
the antiglare option will cost a additional $ 50 .
the $ 2799 17 '' pro , which be due to ship in late january , offer 3 usb 2.0 port , firewire 800 , a mini display port , a express card , a glass trackpad , and up to a 2.93 ghz dual core processor .
the unit support up to 8gb of ddr3 memory and offer a 320 standard hdd .
a 256 ssd drive be optional .
apple consider the update battery its most innovative new feature .
accord to schiller , it offer the longest battery life ever , with up to 8 hour of use on a single charge for the 9400m -lrb- 7 hour on the 9600 gt -rrb- and up to 1000 charge in a lifetime .
importantly , apple manage to include these improvement without change the size or weight of the laptop .
the embedded battery use lithium polymer technology and last '' three time longer than the industry standard '' in term of number of charge over that lifetime .
a embedded chip in the battery adjust the power to cell within the battery through '' adaptive charge . '' .
the new battery be also environmentally green .
itune go drm-free .
today apple announce that it be break its $ 0.99 per track model and drop drm for 8 million song .
the fix price track give way to three price tier : $ 0.69 , $ 0.99 , and $ 1.29 per song .
apple also expand the iphone music store from wifus only to 3g service .
phil schiller , apple 's senior vice president of worldwide marketing , stand in for a recuperate steve job and kick off the show with a new $ 79 version of ilife 09 -lrb- $ 99 for a family pack -rrb- , which be due to ship at the end of january .
ilife be apple 's suite of consumer photo , movie , and web application .
iphoto '09 gain a suite of new feature like '' face '' for organize photo base on facial recognition , '' place '' for integrate google map and view photo base on they geo-tag , synce with facebook and upload to flickr , new slideshow theme that can be save out to itune as movie , and more .
imovie be refresh with several new feature include a precision editor , dynamic theme and animated travel map .
imovie chief architect randy ubillo demonstrate the update software , show how to edit audio with a new advanced drag and drop system .
of particular note be imovie 09 's video stabilization feature .
this automatically correct for jitters and shake , enhance hand-held movie camera footage .
garageband 09 debut a new '' learn to play '' feature that help user master the guitar or piano with a interactive video instructor .
the nine -lrb- free -rrb- basic lesson get end-user up to speed with instrument , and then celebrity artist offer how-to lesson on specific song .
celebrity lesson cost $ 4.99 per lesson and can be purchase from the in-application store .
this offer a entirely new revenue stream for apple that will certainly appeal to the new rockband generation .
apple 's iwork represent they office suite of tool , include the keynote presentation tool , the page word processor , and the number spreadsheet tool .
keynote '09 introduce update transition use apple 's new '' magic move '' technology , which offer finer control of object in slide presentation .
the update keynote also add new theme and transition for text and chart .
a iphone application , '' keynote remote , '' augment presentation .
in vertical mode , the remote app show you slide and note together .
in horizontal mode , it mimic the photo application on the phone , allow you to flick from one slide to the next .
the page '09 update introduce full screen viewing , let you block out other item on you computer and focus on the task on hand .
you will not be interrupt by incoming mail or ichat im when use full screen mode .
dynamic outline be another new feature , provide a way to organize you write with drag and drop .
you can switch back and forth between the standard page view and the outline view , let you move section around and then return to editing they .
the page refresh offer 40 new template , include newsletter , poster , flier , certificate , and business correspondence .
number '09 also receive a refresh , which focus on expand feature request by customer .
among other update , number introduce table category , easier formula creation , and advance chart option .
the refreshed number now support mixed chart type , multiple axis , trend line and error bar .
apple also introduce better pages/numbers integration with live update .
when user change a number spreadsheet , it automatically update in any page document it be cross-link to .
number also introduce presentation template to enhance the visual appeal of its document .
iwork '09 ship today and will cost $ 79 for a single license , $ 99 for a family pack and $ 49 with a new mac .
for user who have hold off on buy leopard , apple introduce a new mac box set .
this set bundle leopard , ilife and iwork for $ 169 it be due to ship in late january , when ilife '09 ship .
apple announce a new collaborative site call iwork.com that be build around iwork .
launch in beta , iwork.com let user share document and collaborate online with each other .
user can and edit document as well as comment on they .
the site support multiple format for download and share and be fully integrate into iwork application .
you can upload document directly from page and other iwork application by click the iwork.com button .
the service will become fee-based after leave beta , but be free for the duration of the beta .
apple unveil cheaper ivy bridge - power macbook air .
june 12 , 2012 .
apple have choose wwdc week to announce a update to its macbook air line .
it may lack the retina display of its newly upgrade , headline - grab cousin , the macbook pro , but the 2012 air see significant advance too .
a upgrade from sandy bridge to ivy bridge processor with improve integrated graphic be chief among the upgrade , and onboard memory have also receive a boost .
what have change be the ultra - thin form factor and -lrb- with the thick end of the wedge max out at 0 . 68 in or 17 mm -rrb- , weigh in at 2 . 38 pound -lrb- 1 . 08 kg -rrb- for the 11 - inch model and 2 . 96 pound -lrb- 1 . 35 kg -rrb- for the 13 - inch .
battery performance remain as be -lrb- which be no bad thing -rrb- , with a tout 5 and 7 hour for the smaller and larger model respectively while wirelessly browse the web .
what new be a upgrade from sandy bridge to the faster ivy bridge processor , which bring with it a switch up from intel hd graphic 3000 to intel hd graphic 4000 .
this should bring with it a noticeable performance boost , though its doubtful that hardcore gamer will be rush to buy the new air as portable gaming rig this year .
the include random access memory allowance have double from 2 to 4 gb -lrb- configurable to 8 gb -rrb- , and have be upgrade to lower voltage 1600 - mhz ddr3l sdram .
flash storage remain at 64 gb and 128 gb in the entry - level 11 - and 13 - inch model respectively , though this be now configurable up to 512 gb .
connectivity see a significant boost with the inclusion of two usb 3 . 0 port in addition to the thunderbolt port .
the usb 3 . 0 standard allow datum transfer more than ten time the speed of usb 2 . 0 .
the power connection have be upgrade to apple magsafe 2 , which be simply a even smaller version of the magsafe port that let the power cable disconnect safely in the event of jarring cable snag , prevent unwelcome macbook / floor interface scenario .
though the 11 - inch air still start at 999 , the 13 - inch have drop 100 to 1199 , make it all the more compelling to laptop - hunter on the prowl for a ultrabook .
apple ceo steve job unveil the company 's new high-end notebook line during the special event be hold at apple 's headquarters in cupertino , calif .
the new macbook pro will feature two graphic chipset , the nvidia geforce 9400m embed on the motherboard and the nvidia geforce 9600m as a discrete part .
the graphic deliver 32 parallel graphic core and 125 gigaflop of graphic performance job say that use the 9400m you get five hour of battery life and four hour with the 9600m .
apple test indicate the new graphic be five time faster than the integrated graphic of the current design .
the macbook pro will also come with a newly design trackpad .
the multitouch glass trackpad have a 39 percent larger tracking area than before , accord to job .
the entire trackpad will act as button , rather than have a separate button like the previous notebook .
apple have also add to its arsenal of multitouch gesture , add four-finger gesture with the latest release .
all of the connector be on the left side of the macbook pro and feature a unibody enclosure .
apple designer jonathan ive explain that apple learn a lot when make the macbook air and use that knowledge to design the new macbook pro .
of course , the macbook pro will have all the feature you have come to expect from a apple notebook like like backlit keyboard , magnetic latch , motion sensor , speaker , isight and microphone .
apple be also add a mini display port on the new model .
a slot-loading superdrive will be on the right-hand side of the macbook pro .
at less than a inch thick the new macbook pro will come in two model .
for $ 1999 you get a 15.4-inch 2.4 intel core 2 duo with 3mb l2 cache , a led-backlit display and 2gb 1066 mhz ddr 3 memory , both nvidia card , a 250gb hard drive and the slot-loading superdrive .
the other model cost $ 2499 and come with 2.53 processor , 6mb l2 , 4gb of memory , 512mb on the nvidia 9600m gt , 320gb hard drive .
the previous generation 15-inch macbook pro also come in two model : a 2.4 and a 2.5 intel core 2 duo .
those system come with a 200gb and 250gb hard drive respectively .
although not discuss in detail today , the 17-inch macbook pro be also updated-not a complete makeover as with the 15-inch macbook pro , but more of a minor update .
the system continue to use the same chassis design as before , and do not have the glass-touch trackpad .
one key change be that the old native screen resolution of 1680 x 1050 have be discontinued-every 17-inch macbook pro now come with the 1920 x 1200 screen , in either -lrb- standard -rrb- glossy -lrb- no-cost option -rrb- matte form .
while cpu speed remain the same -lrb- 2.5 stock , and $ 250 for a upgrade to 2.6 -rrb- , ram have be increase from 2gb to 4gb -lrb- the maximum possible -rrb- , and the hard drive size have increase to 320gb from 250gb .
the standard drive be still a 5400rpm model , with -lrb- as before -rrb- the option of a 320gb 7200rpm drive .
new to the 17-inch macbook pro , however , be a optional 128gb solid-state drive , as use in the update macbook air .
the macbook pro be ship today .
apple unveil new macbook air , next - generation macbook pro .
june 11 , 2012 at 10 : 33 be pt .
apple macbook line , particularly certain portion of it , have be overdue for a refresh .
today , it finally get it .
during the opening keynote of apple wwdc event monday morning , apple phil schiller unveil update to both the macbook air and the macbook pro , as well as a entirely new next - generation macbook pro with a retina display .
the new macbook air feature third - generation 1 . 7ghz intel core processor , a new 512 gigabyte flash - storage option , 60 percent faster graphic , and usb 3 support via a dual usb 2 / usb 3 port .
it also have a new price point that 100 cheaper than its predecessor .
the new macbook pro feature intel ivy bridge chip , run at up to a 2 . 7ghz , with faster graphic .
it , too , have be give a usb 2 / usb 3 port .
the 13 - inch model come in 1 , 199 and 1 , 499 version ; the 15 - inch model be offer in 1 , 799 and 2 , 199 version .
also debut this morning , apple new next - generation macbook pro . '' .
it the most beautiful computer have ever make , '' schiller say , before list the device impressive spec .
the machine be 0 . 71 inch thin , a quarter - inch thinner than the current macbook pro ; it weigh under 4 . 5 pound .
and yes , it boast that rumor retina display .
the screen be 2880 pixel by 1800 ; that four time that of the prior macbook pro , and more than five million pixel total .
the next - generation macbook pro innards be equally impressive : a intel quad - core i7 processor , up to 2 . 7ghz ; up to 16gb of memory ; nvidia geforce gt 650m graphic ; up to 768gb of internal flash storage ; up to seven hour of battery life ; sd card slot , hdmi , usb 3 , a new magsafe 2 connector and , finally , two thunderbolt port .
legacy connector like ethernet and firewire have be abandon , but can run over thunderbolt via a adapter .
price ?
the basic model start at 2 , 199 .
the entire notebook lineup be available for purchase today .
apple inc on tuesday -lrb- jan 6 -rrb- introduce what it claim to be the world 's thinnest and lightest 17-inch laptop with a new unibody aluminium enclosure and a built-in battery say to deliver up to eight hour of use and a lifespan three time longer than conventional laptop battery .
it also announce a revamp of its ilife suite of digital lifestyle software at the macworld expo trade show here , in particular the iphoto photo management software which now come with face detection technology and built-in support for facebook .
consumer can also teach themselves to play musical instrument with the new version of garageband music creation software .
conspicuously miss from this year 's expo be the company 's iconic ceo steve job , who be recuperate from a health problem .
he place as keynote presenter be take over by vice-president of worldwide product marketing phil schiller .
in a two hour-long keynote , schiller showcase the star attraction of the expo , the top-of-the-line 17-inch apple macbook pro that now feature a design similar to apple 's two other laptop , the 13-inch macbook and the 15-inch macbook pro .
its body , carve out of a single block of aluminium , measure just 2.5 thick .
the laptop weigh less than 2.99 .
a high resolution , low power consumption led-backlit display and a large button-less trackpad make of glass have now make its way into the laptop as well .
a new built-in battery power the laptop for eight hour on a single charge .
tout as the greenest notebook family , the new macbook pro 's battery allow up to 1,000 recharge for more than three time the lifespan of conventional laptop battery .
the typical lifespan for laptop battery be about three year .
the new 17-inch macbook pro will retail in malaysia for rm10 .
iphoto , one of five digital lifestyle software in the ilife 09 suite now , have new feature call place and face .
place automatically import photo location datum from a gps-enabled camera or a apple iphone , while with face , iphoto automatically scan photo to detect people 's face and when name be assign to those face , iphoto will find more picture of that person .
take thing a step further , a button in iphoto enable not just convenient publishing of photo on photo sharing website such as facebook and flickr , but also to detect even more face on the internet .
call they '' really powerful '' , schiller demonstrate how these feature help organise thousand of photo .
the update garageband 09 allow bud musician to learn to play the piano and guitar at they own pace .
basic lesson allow newby to learn the fundamental while a feature call artist lesson have original artist include john fogerty , colbie caillat , norah jone and sting show how to play they hit song .
'' ilife have become one of the reason people buy a mac today .
there be nothing like it on any other computing platform , '' say schiller .
price at rm299 for single user , ilife 09 will ship end of january .
also announce at macworld be update to the company 's iwork office productivity suite .
call iwork 09 , the three software that make up the suite , namely keynote , page and number have receive new theme , sophisticated transition effect and a quick way to group and summarise datum .
iwork 09 be available immediately for rm299 .
the '' one more thing '' announcement -- job ' trademark way of announce something unexpected -- be reserve for a new three-tier pricing for apple 's itune online music store which be not available in malaysia .
job , who survive a pancreatic cancer in 2004 and appear to be lose weight throughout 2008 , on monday -lrb- jan 5 -rrb- write a personal letter address to the apple community , say doctor have pinpoint hormone imbalance as the reason for he illness .
'' the remedy for this nutritional problem be relatively simple and straightforward , and i have already begin treatment , '' he write , add that he would remain as apple 's ceo and expect to be back in shape by spring this year .
apple unveil new macbook pro with ivy bridge at wwdc .
june 12th , 2012 .
apple be certainly make wwdc a hardware conference this year - it just unveil a refresh of the exist macbook pro run intel newer ivy bridge processor on the san francisco gathering opening day .
the 13 - and 15 - inch portable run up to 2 . 7ghz quad core i7 -lrb- turbo up to 3 . 7ghz -rrb- , carry up to 8gb of ram and have geforce gt 650m - base graphic 60 percent faster than the previous generation .
like the new macbook air , they tout usb 3 . 0 port .
if you more comfortable with apple conventional macbook pro design than the new variety , apple will ask 1 , 099 for the base 13 - inch version and 1 , 799 for a 15 - inch version , with a upgrade 15 - inch model go for 2 , 199 .
all of they be ship today - be not see any mention of a update 17 - inch version , so it may have be cast aside .
the only hardware release at macworld expo 2009 be a predictable unibody upgrade for the 17-inch macbook pro , which apple report will have a eight-hour battery life .
eight hour be surely impressive for such a large , powerful notebook .
but this news be nonetheless underwhelm for several reason .
some think apple be strategically wait so it could ship the 17-inch macbook pro with a low-cost , quad-core processor .
intel release such a chip just recently , and apc suspect this cpu would appear in apple 's top-of-the-line notebook .
but much to we disappointment , the 17-incher be ship with a plain ol ' dual-core -lrb- core 2 duo -rrb- chip .
true , at 2.66 ghz it be slightly faster than the other macbook pro .
but there be hardly any substantial change to justify the longer wait for this notebook .
apple be able to beef up the macbook pro 's battery by take advantage of the generous amount of space available in the notebook 's enclosure .
this battery be also non-removable , which apple say be necessary to use as much space as possible .
apple also claim the new macbook pro 's battery be more environmentally friendly because it last five year and have fewer toxin .
look like we apple source , and several other in various blog , be incorrect about the rumor of a new mac minus launch at macworld .
we will look into the reason why and provide a update soon .
apple intro new macbook pro , blur line between tablet , computer .
monday , june 11th , 2012 at 10 : 49 be .
apple have unveil the next generation of macbook pro at the wwdc keynote in san francisco .
the 15 . 4 macbook pro refresh will be remarkably thin , at 0 . 71 and at 4 . 46 pound , it will be the thinnest and lightest macbook pro ever .
the display be where the macbook pro refresh truly shine , with a retina display at a whopping 2 , 880 by 1 , 800 pixel .
that amount to 5 , 184 , 000 pixel and 220 ppi , 4 time the current pixel count in the exist macbook pro .
apple tout it as the world highest - resolution notebook display .
all stock mac application have be update to support the retina display on the new macbook pro , as well as several other popular application include aperture , final cut pro , and diablo iii .
update for adobe suite of program and autocad should be come soon as well .
the new macbook pro will feature intel 3rd - generation core -lrb- ivy bridge -rrb- processor up to a i7 2 . 7 ghz quad - core , up to 768gb of internal flash storage , and up to 16gb of ram .
kepler gt 650m graphic will also be include on all model of the new macbook pro , which should offer a superb gaming experience .
the new macbook pro will feature 7 hour of battery life , with up to 30 day of standby time .
complete the feature set be a sd reader , hdmi and usb 3 . 0 , magsafe 2 , thunderbolt , usb 3 . 0 , headphone jack , black magik 5k camera , firewire 800 , and gigaport ethernet thunderbolt adapter .
the new macbook pro will start at 2 , 199 for the 2 . 3 ghz quad - core i7 model with 256gb flash storage , and go up from there .
oh , and the best part ?
the new macbook pro start shipping today .
go ahead and start throw you credit card at the screen , folk .
for I the new , unibody macbook pro 17-inch -lrb- pn mb604ll/a -rrb- be probably the most exciting thing announce here at macworld expo .
not only because i be more of a hardware guy but also because i be a macbook freak .
so , where to start ?
the mbp have three compelling new feature .
the new mbp17 have a matte screen option .
can i get a hallelujah ? !
i have be a staunch critic of glossy display in macbook , and i be not the only one .
it appear that cupertino be finally listen .
the unibody macbook pro 17 be the first in the new form-factor macbook to offer a configuration with a matte screen apple call '' antiglare . '' .
it be a $ 50 option though , which be a bit of a slap in the face .
if i be spend $ 2,800 on a notebook computer you would think that apple would throw in the matte screen option .
but at least it be available , which be excellent .
the question that remain be if the matte screen option will trickle down to the mbp15 and even the mb13 .
representative in the apple booth do not know the answer when i ask they today .
the new mbp17 can support up to 8gb of maximum ram -lrb- and have 4gb standard -rrb- which be a huge step in the right direction .
if you can get past the 8gb $ 1,200 sticker price , that be .
i be sure that the ram price be so high because the new 17 ship with two , 2gb 1066mhz ddr3 sdram module and both have to be remove and replace with two , 4gb module to get to 8gb .
price will eventually come down and 8gb be a attractive option for memory hungry application and anything to do with virtualization .
the mbp17 's fix battery be a bit of a scandal .
it be as if apple do not learn its lesson with the macbook air and iphone battery .
after watch the video by the battery engineer during today 's keynote , i be partially convince .
they justification be that fix battery save a lot of room previously occupy by connector , latch and door .
a fix battery can use more internal real estate in the enclosure to store power - go the refrain as a result the mbp17 fix battery hold 40 percent more energy and will last up to 8 hour on a charge -lrb- 7 hour when use the faster nvidia 9600m gt chip -rrb- accord to apple .
i be curious about the real-world run time though .
most company base they battery benchmark on perfect world condition and it will be interesting to see how long the new battery really last .
the third usb port be a welcome addition but it come at the expense of a dedicated fw400 port on the previous model .
solid state drive -lrb- ssd -rrb- be now available as 128mb -lrb- + $ 500 -rrb- and 256mb -lrb- + $ 900 -rrb- option .
in case you be wonder , a max out mbp17 configuration -lrb- 2.93 , 8gb , 256gb ssd and anti-glare -rrb- will set you back $ 5,250 .
start save you nickel and dime , kid .
i be go to wait and see if the anti-glare screen trickle down to the mbp 15-inch before diving in , although the 8gb of ram be attractive .
apple unveil new flagship macbook pro .
june 11 , 2012 .
apple have unveil its new flagship next generation macbook pro .
apple have unveil its new flagship laptop : the next generation macbook pro .
this new macbook pro boast several upgrade of note , include a slimmer profile : at 0 . 71 inch thick , it be the same thickness as a macbook air .
apple ceo tim cook claim that it thinner than my finger and will weigh just 4 . 5 pound .
the aesthetics of the next generation macbook pro will remain the same : it will still have the same aluminum unibody case and backlit keyboard .
the main difference of note be the internal component and the display .
either a i5 or i7 quad core intel processor power the next generation macbook pro .
couple with turbo boost , the i7 will be able to reach speed of up to 3 . 7 ghz .
this flagship model with run off 16gb of ram , and will also have up to 768 gb of flash storage .
for a graphic processor , the next generation macbook pro will have a 1gb geforce gt 650m graphic card .
all this hardware will be necessary to help support the shiny new display spec .
tim cook announce that apple new laptop will have retina display , mean that you not be able to distinguish individual pixel from a typical view distance .
in hard number , that mean the screen with have a 2880x1800 resolution with 220 pixel per inch .
the next generation macbook pro will also carry some standard port , and a number upgrade port .
it will have two usb port which will support both 3 . 0 and 2 . 0 .
it will also have two thunderbolt , a hdmi , a sd card reader , and a headphone jack .
the new pro do not include a ethernet jack or firewire 800 port , but apple have introduce two adapter that offer thunderbolt to gigabit ethernet and thunderbolt to firewire 800 connection .
so , the standard model will have a 15 . 4 retina display , 2 . 3 ghz i7 , 8gb of ram , 256 gb of flash storage , and a geforce gt 650m .
the final price tag for the next generation macbook pro ?
2199 .
the higher end model cost 2799 .
apple be also upgrade the current macbook pro and air model .
both laptop will receive new ivy bridge cpus , but the price will not increase .
the 11 - inch air will cost from 999 up to 1099 .
the 13 macbook air will get a 1 . 8 ghz i5 dual core processor and intel hd graphic 4000 , a nd the price remain at 1099 to 1499 .
the macbook pro be get more upgrade .
the 13 model will have the option for a 2 . 9 ghz i7 , 750 gb hdd , and up to 8 gb of ram , price at 1799 .
lower - specc model will cost from 1199 .
also of note , be that the the new macbook pro will support two usb 3 . 0 port .
the 15 model with have either 2 . 3 or 2 . 6 ghz i7 quad core .
they will also have upgrade gpus , a choice between either 516mb or 1gb geforce gt 650m .
these large model will be price between 1799 and 2199 , but for that price might as well hold out for the next generation macbook pro with the retina display .
all of these new model be available immediately .
south sudan warn of war after sudan bomb refugee camp .
military aircraft from sudan cross the new international border with south sudan and drop bomb thursday in and around a camp fill with refugee , official say .
a government official initially report death , but a american activist who speak to aid worker at the camp later say there be no casualty .
the violence in and near the yida refugee camp , located 10 mile south of the border , come one day after bombing be report in another region of south sudan , a attack that provoke strong condemnation from the u . s . state department .
the president of south sudan , which become the world newest country only four month ago , say he fear the khartoum - base government intend to invade the south soon .
whatever allegation khartoum label against the republic of south sudan be baseless , but intend to justify he pend invasion of the south , '' president salva kiir say .
he later add : we be commit to peaceful resolution to any conflict but we will never allow we sovereignty to be violate by anybody . '' .
there be no immediate comment from the sudanese government in khartoum on thursday .
the violence be especially troubling give the history between the two side : the black african tribe of south sudan and the mainly arab north battle two civil war over more than five decade , and some 2 million die in the latest war , from 1983 - 2005 .
a peace deal end the war and south sudan become its own country in july after a successful independence referendum .
but there have be linger dispute over border demarcation and oil - share revenue .
ryan boyette , a former aid worker who live in sudan who be now lead a team of 15 citizen journalist , say he talk to five aid worker in the yida camp , all of whom say that four bomb be drop but that they cause no casualty .
plane bomb south sudan refugee camp - witness .
thu , 10 nov 2011 02 : 45 pm .
a refugee camp be the target of a air strike in south sudan unity state on thursday , less than 50 km -lrb- 30 mile -rrb- from the tense border with sudan , a reuters witness say .
there appear to be no casualty .
the reuter correspondent hear a large explosion , then see a crater about two metre -lrb- 6 . 6 foot -rrb- wide , a unexploded bomb wedge in the side of a school building and a white aircraft fly north from the yida refugee camp .
witness at the camp say there be three other explosion at 3 p . m . -lrb- 1200 gmt -rrb- .
israel 's assault on gaza have exact the bloodiest toll of civilian life yet , when the bombing of un school be use as refugee centre and of housing kill more than 50 people , include a entire family of seven young child .
the un protest at a '' complete absence of accountability '' for the escalate number of civilian death in gaza , say '' the rule of the gun '' have take over .
doctor in gaza say more than 40 people die , include child , in what appear to be the biggest single loss of life of the campaign when israeli bomb hit al-fakhora school , in jabaliya refugee camp , while it be pack with hundred of people who have flee the fighting .
most of those kill be in the school playground and in the street , and the dead and injured lay in pool of blood .
picture on palestinian tv show wall heavily mark by shrapnel and bloodstain , and shoe and shred clothes scatter on the ground .
window be blow out .
hour before , three young man who be cousin die when the israelis bomb asma elementary school in gaza city .
they be among 400 people who have seek shelter there after flee they home in beit lahiya , in northern gaza .
abe sultan , 20 , a student , and he cousin , rawhi and hussein sultan , labourer aged 22 , die .
abe sultan 's father , samir , say the body be so mangled that he could not tell he son from the cousin .
'' we come to the school when the israelis warn we to leave , '' he say .
'' we hope it would be safe .
we be 20 in one room .
we have no electricity , no blanket , no food .
'' suddenly we hear a bomb that shake the school .
window smash .
child start to scream .
a relative come and tell I one of my son be kill .
i find my son 's body with he two cousin .
they be cut into piece by the shell . '' .
the un be particularly incense over targeting of the school , because israeli force know they be pack with family as they have order they to get out of they home with leaflet drop and loudspeaker .
it say it have identify the school as refugee centre to the israeli military and provide gp coordinate .
israel accuse hama of use civilian as cover , and say the islamist group could stop the assault on gaza by end its rocket attack on israel .
the palestinian authority president , mahmoud abba , last night deliver a impassioned plea to the un security council to act immediately to stop the israeli operation , which he describe as a '' catastrophe '' for he people .
israel have agree a '' humanitarian corridor '' to allow palestinian to get essential goods .
the rise casualty toll , more than 640 palestinian kill since the assault begin 12 day ago , give fresh impetus to diplomatic effort .
the white house offer its first hint of concern at israel 's action by call on it to avoid civilian death .
the president-elect , barack obama , break he silence by say he be '' deeply concerned '' about civilian casualty on both side .
he say he would have '' plenty to say '' about the crisis after he swearing in .
gordon brown say the middle east be face its '' darkest moment yet '' but hope a ceasefire could be arrange soon .
explain its attack on al-fahora school , the israeli military claim that a mortar be fire from the playground , and it respond with a single shell whichkill known hama fighter ; the result explosion be compound because hama '' booby-trapped the school '' .
two hama militant be among the dead , both part of a rocket-launching cell .
the head of the un palestinian refugee agency , john ging , say three shell land at the perimeter of the school .
'' it be entirely inevitable if artillery shell land in that area there would be a high number of casualty , '' he say .
he say un staff vet those palestinian who seek shelter at the school .
'' so far we have not have violation by militant of we facility , '' he say , though respond to question he accept there have be clash between hama and the israeli army in the area .
earlier in the day , ging visit gaza 's hospital and be shock at the scale of civilian casualty .
'' what you have in this hospital be the consequence of political failure and the complete absence of any accountability for action that be be take .
it be the rule of the gun now , and it have to stop , '' he say .
at least 12 of one family , seven child age from one to 12 , three woman and two man , be kill in a air strike on they house in gaza city .
nine other be believe trap .
israel continue to insist most of those kill by its force be hama and islamic jihad fighter - although its assertion it be go to extraordinary length to target only '' terrorist '' have be undermine by a tank firing on a building use by israeli troops , kill four of they , on monday .
another soldier be kill yesterday as israeli force continue they push into gaza city .
tank and troops also move on the southern town of khan yunis .
the invasion have yet to achieve what israel say be its goal of stop rocket attack .
hamas fire more than 30 into israel yesterday , one to within 20 mile of tel aviv at gadera , wound a baby .
the de facto hamas prime minister in gaza , ismail haniyeh , issue a statement from hide , say that the gazan would defeat israel .
'' -lsb- israel -rsb- have fail to force the population to surrender , '' he say .
break news : sudan bomb yida refugee camp in south sudan .
on nov 10 , 2011 .
the sudan armed force , or saf , attack a refugee camp in south sudan at 2 : 53 p . m . local time today .
enough project source indicate that no one be kill or injure in the attack , contrary to initial estimate from the unity state government .
however , casualty figure remain unconfirmed .
a saf spokesman deny the attack occur .
at least four bomb be reportedly drop .
source on the ground tell enough that one bomb , which do not explode , fall directly within the camp , in a primary school yard , with several more fall in the close vicinity .
a reuter correspondent report hear a large explosion , then see a crater about two metre -lrb- 6 . 6 foot -rrb- wide , a unexploded bomb wedge in the side of a school building and a white aircraft fly north .
observer believe the attack be carry out by the saf signature antonov bomber .
one of the bomb land inside a primary school yard in the camp , accord to citizen journalist ryan boyette , who be on the phone with source in the camp when the raid begin .
boyette report school be in session but no child or staff be injure , since the bomb do not explode .
three other bomb allegedly explode outside the camp : two land and explode on the outskirts , near the airfield where two u . n . aircraft have land today to deliver food .
the first aircraft depart without incident , but the bombing reportedly begin shortly after the second aircraft arrive .
the plane be not damage .
yida be home to more than 22 , 000 refugee , many of whom walk at least seven day across the border to flee indiscriminate bombing and approach famine condition in sudan south kordofan state .
since fight between the saf and the sudanese people liberation army - north , or spla - n , begin in july , hundred of thousand of civilian have flee south kordofan , many into the border area of newly independent south sudan .
the attack on yida camp come shortly after report of aerial bombardment in south sudan upper nile state , make it sudan second unprovoked military attack on the sovereign state of south sudan in the last three day .
in a november 9 press conference , south sudan president salva kiir state he country would not retaliate for the report bombing of guffa in upper nile state on tuesday , which he say kill seven .
it remain to be see how the government of south sudan will respond to this second attack within its border ; president kiir hold a press conference today on relation with sudan just hour before the alleged attack on yida camp .
the regime in khartoum be attempt to provoke south sudan into restart a war , '' say enough project co - founder john prendergast , quote by the associated press .
the regime endgame be to either capture south sudan oilfield along they common border , or achieve a stronger negotiating position on shared oil revenue and border demarcation . this provocation must be counter by the full force of the international community , or else a massive war could unfold . '' .
no militant be inside a unite nations-run school attack by israeli force in gaza , leave 40 people dead , the un say .
christopher gunness from the un relief and work agency say a initial investigation leave he 99.9 per cent sure there be no militant at the school .
about 1000 people be shelter in the school after have be hound from they home by warfare , he say .
mr gunness slam the israeli attack on the school .
'' of course it be appalling , '' he tell abc television from jerusalem .
'' this fighting have to stop . '' .
'' enough people , among they woman and child , have die . '' .
mr gunness say civilian death be a inevitable consequence of attack a crowded place like gaza .
'' imagine a situation where someone say we be go to plan a massive air bombardment , but it will be pinprick and surgical , on downtown sydney , '' he say .
unhcr condemn air attack on refugee camp in south sudan .
11 november 2011 .
the un refugee agency on friday strongly condemn the aerial bombing of a temporary refugee camp in south sudan shelter more than 20 , 000 civilian flee from conflict in neighbouring sudan nuba mountain .
two of the bomb fall within the yida camp , include one close to the school , '' say unhcr spokesman adrian edward .
fortunately there be no casualty in the camp and we be verify the situation of surround community , '' he tell journalist in geneva .
unhcr have be ready new refugee site away from the border in unity state when the incident occur on thursday .
we have hope to begin the relocation of refugee but we effort have so far be hamper by heavy rain which have make the road to the camp impassable , '' edward explain .
the refugee agency be concern by the escalate tension in the border area between sudan and south sudan , where hundred of thousand of civilian have be uproot since june as a result of fighting .
there be also report this week of bombing in new guffa village of south sudan upper nile state result in civilian casualty .
as many as 55 , 000 civilian originate from the damazine and kurmuk area be say to be move southwards in sudan blue nile state .
some of these people be head to chali within blue nile state .
other be cross into new guffa village , nine kilometre from the border , or bunj , the capital of maban county in south sudan upper nile state .
other may be move into neighbouring ethiopia , where more than 30 , 000 sudanese have find refuge and be be help by unhcr and its partner .
new arrival in maban county describe empty village south of kurmuk town on the other side of the border .
the new arrival be be register in bunj , where unhcr have a way station as well as a warehouse that hold enough supplies for 15 , 000 refugee .
un assessment team be plan to travel to maban over the weekend to assess the humanitarian condition for new arrival .
meanwhile , local authority have be identify temporary reception site as more arrival be anticipate amid heighten tension .
the unite nation on wednesday deny israel defense force claim that there be palestinian militant in the gaza school bomb by israel on tuesday .
christopher gunness of the un relief and work agency -lrb- unrwa -rrb- say the organization be 99.9 percent certain there be no militant or military activity in its school .
that do not necessarily contradict israel 's claim that the militant be operate close by , gunness say .
gunness put the death toll of the shell at 40 , and add that the agency want a impartial investigation of witness , israeli military photograph or any other evidence .
the idf on tuesday release video footage from 2007 show palestinian militant firing from the school compound and carry a rocket launcher with they as they flee the scene .
11 november 2011 last update at 12 : 41 gmt .
sudan bomb refugee in south sudan unity state .
south sudanese official have condemn sudan after a aerial bombardment of a refugee camp in they territory .
the bbc jame copnall be at the yida camp in oil - rich unity state , which border sudan , when it be bomb .
local official miabek lang say at least 12 people have be kill and 20 wound .
the sudanese military , which have be fight rebel in area near south sudan , have deny the claim .
we reporter say he arrive at the camp at about 12 : 00 gmt on thursday as a second round of bomb hit .
he say that just as a un helicopter , carry food aid , settle on to a makeshift landing zone at the camp , there be a deep and terrifying thud of a nearby explosion .
a large plane be spotted head to the north , we reporter say .
completely false .
several resident of the refugee camp tell he it be a antonov plane , often use by the sudanese government as a makeshift bomber .
the refugee say the plane have circle before launch two bombing raid .
five bomb be drop , of which four explode , they tell we correspondent .
we reporter say he do not see any casualty , but mr lang , the commissioner of pariang county in unity state , say that 12 people have be kill and the death toll could rise .
incident like this , and both side belief that the other be sponsor rebel on they territory , be contribute to a rapidly deteriorate relationship between sudan and south sudan , he say .
thousand of people who have flee fight in sudan south kordofan region have cross the border to take refuge at the yida camp .
sudan army have often be accuse of bombing south kordofan , where it be face a rebellion from pro - southern group .
we reporter say there be talk that rebel use the camp to rest before return to south kordofan to fight .
the refugee be , however , furious with sudan president omar al - bashir over the bombing , he say .
the governor of unity state , taban deng , say mr bashir should be hold responsible .
why do omar bashir do this ?
he have a lot to answer , '' mr deng say .
however , sudan armed force spokesman sawarmi khale saad vehemently deny any link to the raid .
this information be completely false .
we do bomb any camp or any area inside the border of south sudan , '' he tell the afp news agency .
what be go on in south sudan belong to the southerner .
we not have any link to this . '' .
the south sudan liberation army rebel group be active in unity state - it deny claim that it be work for khartoum in order to destabilise its neighbour .
south sudan gain independence in july under a peace deal which follow decade of north - south conflict .
seventeen hour after the attack on one of he school kill 40 palestinian seek shelter from israel 's war on hama , the unite nation ' director of operation in gaza , john ging , be certain of at least one thing '' we have establish beyond any doubt that the school be not be use by any militant , '' mr ging tell the age last night .
'' they be innocent people . '' .
speak by phone from the un 's relief and work agency in gaza , mr ging struggle to contain he anger at the attack that have also leave more 50 people with serious injury , 10 of whom remain critical .
israel have demand that hama be prevent from rearm as a main condition for a ceasefire .
when the israeli attack come on the prep c girl school in the jabaliya camp at 3.45 on tuesday , mr ging say about 350 palestinian be inside , use the school as a shelter .
'' the reason they be in the school be because the israelis have tell they to go there , '' he say .
'' they be do exactly as they have be tell . '' .
to ensure there be no confusion about the school 's location , mr ging say the unite nation give specific gp co-ordinate to israeli defence force commander .
but after receive report that mortar shell have be fire at israeli unit from within the school grounds , the commander decide to strike back .
'' they shoot back to save they own life , '' say israeli defence force spokesman ilan tal .
three tank shell explode just outside the school grounds , cause pandemonium inside .
'' as you can imagine , this be a very distressing attack , '' mr ging say .
'' it have kill 40 people , and some of those who be injure may yet die .
'' now we need to know how this happen .
a full , transparent and independent inquiry have to be hold to determine exactly how this occur . '' .
the israeli defence force maintain that mortar have be fire from the school .
in a statement release by spokesman captain benjamin rutland , it say it have incontrovertible evidence to support its version of event .
'' this be not the first time that hama have fire mortar and rocket from school , in such a way deliberately use civilian as human shield in they act of terror against israel , '' the statement say .
brigadier-general avi benayahu say the israeli defence force have establish that hama terror operative be among the dead at the school , and have proof of a mortar battery cell that have be firing in the area .
'' hama operative imad abu askhar and hassan abu askhar be among terrorist that be identify to be kill , '' he say .
the attack on the school have cause widespread shock across israel , intensify pressure on prime minister ehud olmert to reach a ceasefire .
after 13 day of bombardment of gaza from the air , land and sea , which have claim more than 660 life , the past few day of fight have be among the bloodiest in the history of the israel-palestinian conflict .
five israeli soldier lose they life on wednesday , four from friendly fire , bring to 10 the number of israeli who have be kill .
just before midnight on tuesday , three gazan be kill when israeli force attack another un school in gaza city .
earlier that day , a shell hit a house in the beach refugee camp , kill at least seven member of one family .
shell of house in the bureij refugee camp leave at least five dead and 16 injure .
bombing at yida refugee camp , south sudan .
on thursday , november 10th at approximately 3 : 00 pm , the yida refugee camp in south sudan be bomb .
nonviolent peaceforce yida protection team live and work in the camp , provide protection monitoring and support to nearly 23 , 000 nuban refugee who have flee to south sudan to escape the escalate violent conflict across the border in sudan south kordofan .
four bomb be drop within just a few moment - two land inside the camp itself , while the other two bomb be drop near the airstrip where a un helicopter be deliver much need food aid .
of the bomb that land inside the camp , one detonate about a quarter mile from the np compound .
the other land next to the school building where 300 student be attend class , but it do not explode .
tiffany ornela , np yida team leader , report that people be terrify ; they be run and scream in all direction .
however , there have be no casualty or fatality confirm as a result of this bombing .
in the day follow the bombing , np team have be work with the refugee and host community to verify the damage to the camp , account for child who flee during the bombing , set up a safety perimeter around the unexploded bomb to prevent curious child from approach it , and explore option to further improve the safety and security of the refugee live at the camp .
np protection team arrive in yida one month ago to respond to the direct protection need of the camp and host population .
np team of 3 international and 3 local protection officer be work to facilitate secure relation between both community and to provide specialized support for the most vulnerable civilian , include more than 1200 unaccompanied child .
date publish : tuesday , november 15 , 2011 .
unite nation secretary-general ban ki-moon today speak out against israel 's '' totally unacceptable '' attack against three clearly-marked unite nation school , where civilian be seek refuge from the ongoing conflict in gaza , with a senior official call for a independent inquiry into the incident which claim dozen of life .
more than two dozen school run by the un relief and work agency for palestine refugee in the near east -lrb- unrwa -rrb- be serve as temporary shelter to more than 15,000 palestinian whose home have be destroy or who be flee the violence .
the agency 's education programme have be suspend since the start of israeli air attack on gaza , which israel say it launch in response to rocket attack by hama militant , on 27 december .
civilian '' be seek sanctuary in unrwa school because they have no other place to go and be not able to flee the gaza strip , '' mr. ban say in a statement .
some 30 people be kill and 55 other injure , five of they critically , when three artillery shell land at the perimeter of a school , which usually serve as a girl ' preparatory school , in the jabaliya refugee camp , accord to john ging , unrwa 's director of operation .
also in jabaliya , a boy ' school be attack but it be empty , he say .
last night , three palestinian , who have seek refuge in a small co-educational un school in gaza city , die when a missile hit the building 's toilet facility .
the three man who be kill be '' gazan who have flee they home earlier that day , '' the unrwa official say , add that they think '' they would be safe in a un school in gaza city . '' .
these attack reinforce the urgent need for a ceasefire to end the mount casualty , he say , demand a independent investigation into these attack .
'' i sincerely hope that for the sake of those that have die , that it would not have be in vain . '' .
in a separate incident , seven un staff be injure , three seriously , along with three patient , when a strike on a nearby building cause significant collateral damage to a unrwa health centre .
'' the location of all un facility have be communicate to the israeli authority and be know to the israeli army , '' the secretary-general say .
after earlier strike , israel 's government have be warn that its operation be endanger un facility .
'' i be deeply dismayed that despite these repeat effort , today 's tragedy have ensue , '' he say .
the israeli attack against un site housing civilian seek refuge be '' totally unacceptable and must not be repeat , '' mr. ban stress .
'' equally unacceptable be any action by militant which endanger the palestinian civilian population . '' .
these event highlight the danger pose by continue and step up fighting , he say , reiterate he call for a immediate ceasefire .
mr. ban will speak further about the latest development in gaza and southern israel during a public meeting this evening of the un security council , chair by french foreign minister bernard kouchner .
the council have meet behind closed door on saturday after israel expand its week-old air strike into a ground offensive into gaza , but reach no formal agreement regard the violence and worsen humanitarian situation .
south sudan accuse sudan of air strike on refugee camp .
thu nov 10 , 2011 3 : 00pm est .
a refugee camp in south sudan unity state be bomb thursday , south sudan official and witness say , threaten to raise tension with sudan in the violence - plague border region .
taban deng , the governor of unity state , accuse sudan of carry out the attack .
these people -lrb- khartoum -rrb- should be take to book .
they should adhere to international law and regulation , '' he tell reporter in bentiu .
sudan armed force deny they carry out the strike .
in a statement before the bombing , south sudan president salva kiir talk of sudan pend invasion of its neighbor .
violence along the poorly define border since south sudan independence in july have strain tie between the two former civil war foe .
they have accuse one another of backing rebel group on they side of the border .
a reuters correspondent hear a large explosion in the yida refugee camp , then see a crater about two meter -lrb- 6 . 6 foot -rrb- wide , a unexploded bomb wedge in the side of a school building and a white aircraft fly north .
witness say there be three further explosion at 3 p . m . -lrb- 1200 gmt -rrb- .
yida be a camp of about 20 , 000 refugee from the nuba mountain region of south kordofan , a state north of the border where rebel have be fight sudan army since june .
khartoum report fresh clash in the state thursday .
there be no immediate report of any casualty at the camp , less than 25 km -lrb- 15 mile -rrb- from the border with sudan .
a spokesman for the enough project , a activist group that work to end genocide , say the group confirm there be no dead or wound .
the refugee need to be safe and need to be protect .
they run away from war .
they should not be pursue inside the territory of south sudan , '' deng , the governor , say .
al - sawarmi khalid , spokesman for sudan armed force , say sudan have not bomb anywhere in south sudan territory .
south sudan be a state in the unite nation .
we respect international law , and it impossible that we would do that , '' he say .
khalid say sudanese force fight rebel in south kordofan about five kilometer south of the town of taludi thursday , kill dozen and destroy a tank and other military vehicle .
fighting have also break out in sudan blue nile state this year .
the two state be home to ten of thousand of fighter who side with the south during the war but be leave in sudan when south sudan secede , analyst say .
south sudan split off into a separate country in july after vote overwhelmingly for secession in a january referendum , the culmination of a 2005 peace deal that end decade of war between north and south .
volatile border .
fire crackle in the dry grass around the crater about 100 meter away from a aid agency compound in yida camp .
they -lrb- khartoum -rrb- not want any life in the nuba mountain , and now they be expand the war to the south sudan republic , '' say yousif ismail , a refugee from the nuba mountain , as he stand by the hole .
last week , khartoum submit its second complaint to the u . n . security council , accuse south sudan of supply anti - aircraft and anti - tank missile , ammunition , landmine and mortar to insurgent in south kordofan and blue nile state .
kiir deny those claim in a statement thursday , call they smoke screen to mask khartoum own activity in support of the armed dissident group that be fight its proxy war against the republic of south sudan . '' .
the accusation be be use to justify sudan pend invasion of the south , '' kiir say .
the two country have yet to agree on how much the new nation will pay to use sudan oil pipeline and other facility , which south sudan depend on to export crude .
they also dispute control of the abyei region .
some 2 million people die in the north - south civil war , wage for all but a few year since 1955 over religion , ideology , ethnicity and oil .
brussels condemn israeli bombing of un school .
pressure to obtain a ceasefire in gaza have be mount , with the eu warn israel it be '' destroy '' its image , while israeli force on tuesday -lrb- 6 january -rrb- kill at least 40 people during a attack on a unite nations-run school in gaza .
the israeli attack on the fakhora school in the northern town of jabaliya , which also wound around 100 people , be the deadliest single strike of the offensive so far and the third un school to come under fire within 24 hour .
the bombing have draw international condemnation , with the eu call it '' completely unacceptable . '' .
'' we think the attack be completely unacceptable and strongly condemn the fact that civilian be hit while shelter themselves from the violence , '' say cristina gallach , spokesperson of eu foreign policy chief javier solana .
john ging , the head of the un relief and work agency , through which most eu aid to gaza be distribute alongside the red cross and red crescent condemn the attack as '' horrific '' and suggest israel know it be targett a un facility .
'' we have provide the gp co-ordinate of every single one of we location , '' he tell the bbc .
'' they be clearly mark with un insignia , flag fly , light shine on the flag at night .
it be very clear that these be united nation installation . '' .
the israeli military however argue hama fighter have fire mortar shell at they force from the school and they have to return fire .
in the aftermath of the school attack , tel aviv decide to allow the establishment of a '' humanitarian corridor '' into the gaza strip , premier ehud olmert 's office say last night .
christopher gunness , spokesman for the un relief and work agency -lrb- unrwa -rrb- describe the situation on the ground to the euobserver .
some 1 million gazan be currently without electricity , another 250,000 be without run water , and every hospital be run on emergency generator .
unrwa hand out food to 750,000 people daily , but mr gunness warn that they will run out of food '' in day , rather than week '' , and there be no food distribution on tuesday at all .
tzipi livnus , the israeli foreign minister say several time last week that there be no humanitarian crisis in the occupied territory , and the israeli ambassador to the eu yesterday tell this website that m livnus have explain to the eu peace delegation on monday .
'' everything be be do and will be do to avoid a humanitarian crisis . '' .
the un 's mr gunness disagree with the minister .
'' there be a humanitarian crisis already , so she be not manage to avoid one . '' .
'' it be impossible to do we job the reason we have to cancel food distribution today be because we trucking contractor have two relative kill by the israelis .
there be a wake organise but then that be attack too .
it be just too dangerous for they to be drive around . '' .
'' during the period of relative calm of about five-six month follow the 19 july truce , we regularly ask to get aid in , but israel do not give permission . '' .
on 19 june 2008 , a six-month egypt-brokered truce agreement be reach between hama and israel .
tel aviv however break the cease-fire on 4 november 2008 , when israeli troops raid the gaza strip and kill six hama gunman .
at the time , israel claim hama be plan to use a tunnel to capture israeli soldier .
the truce completely break down on 20 december , when hama officially announce that they would not be extend the cease-fire , and begin launch rocket targett southern israel once again .
meanwhile , egypt have put forward a truce plan that would include a immediate ceasefire , as well as meeting in cairo between leader of israel and '' palestinian faction , '' news wire report .
detail of the proposal be not know yet , but its main focus be to halt the violence and secure border between gaza and israel , as well as gaza and egypt - so as to limit arm smuggling from egypt into the gaza strip .
accord to the bbc , both palestinian authority president mahmoud abba and the we have back the proposal .
israel have say it would look into the suggestion .
'' i be very sure it will be consider ... we take it very , very seriously , '' gabriela shalev , israel 's ambassador to the un , be quote as say by reuter .
more than 600 palestinian have be kill so far in the 12 day of the israeli offensive into gaza , and around 3,000 have be wound .
palestinian health ministry official say at least 195 of the victim be child .
israel have so far lose seven soldier and four civilian in the conflict .
the eu have also warn israel that the offensive be tarnish its image , german news agency dpa report .
'' we have come to israel in order to advance the initiative for a humanitarian ceasefire and i will tell you , mr president , that you have a serious problem with international advocacy , and that israel 's image be be destroy , '' eu foreign affair commissioner benita ferrero-waldner tell israeli president shimon pere during the visit of a eu delegation in the region .
but mr pere retort that israel be fight other war and a public image one be not among they .
'' europe must open its eye .
we be not in the business of public relation or improve we image .
we be fight against terror , and we have every right to defend we citizen , '' he tell a eu ministerial delegation , afp report .
south sudan accuse sudan of bombing civilian camp amid fear of war .
publish : november 10 , 2011 .
civilian flee as bomb fall on a camp for displaced people in south sudan on thursday , and president salva kiir accuse the sudanese government of plan to invade he newly independent nation .
less than six month after south sudan break away from sudan , a act that be the culmination of a peace accord to end decade of civil war , tension between the neighbor be crystallize into fear of direct confrontation .
speak in south sudan capital , juba , mr . kiir denounce the sudanese government for threaten what he call a military invasion of south sudan , and he reject accusation by the sudanese government that he country be arm sudanese rebel as utterly baseless and malicious . '' .
mr . kiir have also accuse the sudanese government of bombing the south sudanese area of guffa in recent day , kill at least seven people and potentially move the insurgency on both side of the border closer to a international conflict .
the united state issue a statement on thursday condemn in the strongest possible term what it call negative development between the nation , particularly the airstrike by the sudanese force .
the provocative aerial bombardment near the border increase the potential of direct confrontation between sudan and south sudan , '' the american statement say .
sudan have deny striking south sudanese territory .
nevertheless , on thursday afternoon a antonov bomber drop four bomb on the south sudanese area of yida , hit a refugee camp of roughly 21 , 000 people , some of they northern sudanese who have cross the border since the rebellion in sudan begin .
accord to a aid worker with knowledge of the event , two bomb fall on a airstrip , one hit a school and one land on a market , but do not detonate .
there be vary report of casualty , but none could be confirm .
while the two nation continue to discuss how to split lucrative oil revenue and the fate of the contest region of abyeus , a spreading rebellion inside sudan have prompt the sudanese government to accuse the south of provide military support to the rebel .
last week , the sudanese government lodge a formal complaint with the unite nation security council , argue that south sudan be try to start a border war .
we not have any intention to go to war again , but it be now up to the southern government to either strengthen its state without hostility , or to disturb we , '' say a sudanese government spokesman , rabie a . atti .
if they come to war , they will lose a lot . '' .
many resident in the sudanese province of southern kordofan and blue nile fight alongside the south during its civil war with the north .
but the 2005 peace treaty place the two province in sudan territory , leave south sudan to hold a referendum to decide its own fate .
in january , the south sudanese vote almost unanimously to secede from the rest of the country .
they fellow combatant in southern kordofan and blue nile remain on the other side of the border , and a armed rebellion soon begin .
we be ready to fight and continue until we reach khartoum , '' the sudanese capital , say one of the rebel leader , abdel aziz al - hilu , in a september interview .
we be prepare for a protracted war , a long war , '' he add , in order to see this regime oust . '' .
in return , the sudanese military have clamp down hard on the rebellion , fill the sky over southern kordofan and blue nile with antonov bomber , some of which have fly over south sudanese territory , too .
a satellite imaging project organize by the enough project , a advocacy group , have publish what it say be evidence of mass grave in the rebellious region , and the unite nation have say the military activity could amount to war crime .
the united state , a close partner of south sudan , have make strong overture to the government in sudan , say that if it cooperate peacefully with south sudan transition to independence , economic sanction on the country could be lift .
but last week , president obama seem to change he mind , call for sanction to be extend over what he call hostile action on the part of the sudanese government that pose a unusual and extraordinary threat to american foreign policy .
they promise we a lot of thing ; nothing actually implement , '' say mr . atti , the sudanese government spokesman .
it unfair . '' .
south sudan - or sudan - can ill afford a new war .
the economy of both nation be in a delicate state , with sudan suffering from a loss of oil income since south sudan independence , and protest spring up in the street of khartoum early this year .
as for south sudan , it be one of the least developed country in the world .
furthermore , it face a number of internal rebellion itself , particularly in province near the border , and it have accuse the sudanese government of back militia there .
the overall view be that they have to exist with the other side , '' say aly verjee , a senior researcher at the rift valley institute .
even if you not trust they so much , and if they be meddle in you own sovereign territory , there be a lot ride on that . '' .
a israeli mortar strike that kill about 40 palestinian shelter in a un school tuesday bring new urgency to diplomatic effort to end israel 's military onslaught in the gaza strip , as the un security council meet to discuss the crisis .
with the conflict now have take more than 600 life and aid agency warn of a deepen humanitarian crisis in gaza-where large area be without power and water .
israel say early wednesday that it would suspend attack in some area so a '' humanitarian corridor '' could be create to deliver vital supplies .
the israeli army say the un school in the jabaliya refugee camp be hit when troops respond to a mortar attack from the grounds and that the dead include a number of hama militant .
a military spokesman say he have no information on whether troops have identify the hundred of civilian in the school compound before they return fire .
the carnage appear to intensify international effort to arrange a cease-fire after 11 day of a punish israeli offensive against hama , just as deadly strike on civilian in previous conflict with guerrilla in lebanon raise pressure on israel to halt hostility .
in the 2006 lebanon war , 28 lebanese civilian be kill in a israeli bombing in the village of qana , and a shell that kill more than 100 lebanese shelter in a un compound in the same village hasten the end of a major israeli assault on hezbollah in 1996 .
at the security council on tuesday , french foreign minister bernard kouchner urge support for a cease-fire plan announce in egypt by president hosnus mubarak and french president nicola sarkozy .
u.s. secretary of state condoleezza rice welcome the initiative but tell the council that any agreement must halt rocket attack from gaza and arm smuggling into the hamas-ruled territory .
israel have insist that any truce must ensure that hama can not re-arm .
the mortar strike in jabaliya be the second attack on a school run by the un relief and work agency , or unrwa .
in a earlier airstrike , three cousin who have take refuge with hundred of other people in a un school be kill .
a israeli army spokesman say he have no information about the incident .
shifa hospital , gaza 's main medical center , say 42 people be kill in the jabaliya school , where more than 300 palestinian have take shelter from fight around they home .
the un say earlier that it have confirm 30 dead and 55 wound , 15 critically .
'' there be nowhere safe in gaza , '' say john ging , the head of unrwa in gaza , after the first school be hit .
'' everyone here be terrorize and traumatize . '' .
the un say some 14,000 palestinian displace from they home be in emergency shelter .
unrwa spokesman christopher gunness say that the school hit be clearly mark with a un flag and that the gp coordinate of all un installation in gaza have be give some time ago to the israelis .
he say unrwa want a impartial probe of the israeli strike that could also determine whether militant have use the school for a mortar attack .
israeli foreign minister tzipi livnus tell reporter she be unfamiliar with detail of the jabaliya incident but '' unfortunately , -lsb- hama militant -rsb- be hide among civilian . '' .
mohammad awad , hospitalize with shrapnel wound in the leg and face , say he have come to the school with he family after he house be destroy in the bombing of a neighbor home of a hamas leader .
he say he and other man have be sit in the schoolyard when shell hit the compound .
'' i see body fly and people tear to piece , '' he say .
maje hamdan , a associated press photographer , say that at the local hospital , '' i see woman and men-parents-slap they face in grief , scream , some of they collapse to the floor .
they know they child be dead . '' .
umm ibrahim , a hospitalize woman , say she have lose a 8-year-old daughter and two son , 11 and 14 she say she have come to the school after a phone warning from the israelis that the family house would be strike because one son be a hamas militant .
'' we escape death in we house , but it pursue we to the school , '' she say .
'' what can we do ?
where should we go ? '' .
in a earlier israeli strike in the zeitoun neighborhood of gaza city , at least 12 member of the extended daya family be kill when they house collapse after it be hit by missile , medical official and a survive relative say .
other family member be miss and fear dead in the rubble .
the army say it be check the report .
south sudan : sudan bomb refugee camp .
publish on : 11 november 2011 - 11 : 25am .
a refugee camp in south sudan unity state be bomb on thursday , south sudan official and witness say , threaten to raise tension with sudan .
sudan armed force deny they carry out the strike .
south sudan president salva kiir talk of sudan pend invasion of its neighbour .
violence along the poorly define border since south sudan independence in july have strain tie between the two nation .
they have accuse one another of backing rebel group on they side of the border .
a reporter hear a large explosion in the yida refugee camp , then see a crater about two metre wide , a unexploded bomb wedge in the side of a school building and a white aircraft fly north .
witness say there be three further explosion at 3 p . m .
yida be a camp of about 20 , 000 refugee from the nuba mountain region of south kordofan , a state north of the border where rebel have be fight sudan army since june .
the camp be less than 25 kilometre from the border with sudan .
there be no immediate report of any casualty .
khartoum deny .
taban deng , the governor of unity state , accuse khartoum of carry out the attack .
these people -lrb- khartoum -rrb- should be take to book .
they should adhere to international law and regulation , '' deng tell reporter in bentiu .
the refugee need to be safe and need to be protect .
they run away from war .
they should not be pursue inside the territory of south sudan , '' he say .
al - sawarmi khalid , spokesman for sudan armed force , say sudan have not bomb anywhere in south sudan territory .
south sudan be a state in the unite nation .
we respect international law , and it impossible that we would do that , '' he say .
south sudan split off into a separate country in july after vote overwhelmingly for secession in a january referendum , the culmination of a 2005 peace deal that end decade of war between north and south .
fight in blue nile state .
fire crackle in the dry grass around the crater about 100 metre away from a aid agency compound in yida camp .
they -lrb- khartoum -rrb- not want any life in the nuba mountain , and now they be expand the war to the south sudan republic , '' say yousif ismail , a refugee from the nuba mountain .
fighting have break out in sudan blue nile state this year .
blue nile and south kordofan be home to ten of thousand of fighter who side with the south during the war but be leave in sudan when south sudan secede , analyst say .
khartoum smoke screen .
last week , khartoum submit its second complaint to the un security council , accuse south sudan of supply anti - aircraft and anti - tank missile , ammunition , landmine and mortar to the insurgent .
kiir deny those claim in a statement on thursday , call they smoke screen to mask khartoum own activity in support of the armed dissident group that be fight its proxy war against the republic of south sudan .
the accusation be be use to justify sudan pend invasion of the south , '' kiir say .
the two country have yet to agree on how much the new nation will pay to use sudan oil pipeline and other facility , which south sudan depend on to export crude .
they also dispute control of the abyei region .
some 2 million people die in the north - south civil war , wage for all but a few year since 1955 over religion , ideology , ethnicity and oil .
the civilian death toll in gaza increase dramatically today , with report of more than 40 palestinian kill after missile explode outside a un school where hundred of people be shelter from the continue israeli offensive .
two israeli tank shell strike the school in jabaliya refugee camp , spray shrapnel on people inside and outside the building , accord to news agency report .
the medical director of the hospital in jabaliya tell the guardian 41 body have be bring in so far and more could be on the way .
reuter journalist film body scatter on the ground amid pool of blood and tear shoe and clothes .
in addition to the dead , several dozen people be wound , hospital official say .
the israeli military say it be look into the report .
a unite nation official in gaza say the school be clearly mark with a un flag and its location have be report to israeli authority .
john ging , director of operation in gaza for unrwa , the unite nation relief and work agency , say that three artillery shell land at the perimeter of the school where 350 people be take shelter .
'' of course it be entirely inevitable if artillery shell land in that area there would be a high number of casualty , '' he say .
ask whether there be hama militant in the area at the time of the attack , ging say it be the scene of clash '' so there be a intense military and militant activity in that area . '' .
he say un staff vet palestinian seek shelter at they facility to make sure militant be not take advantage of they '' so far we have not have violation by militant of we facility , '' he say .
ging call for a independent investigation of the strike near un facility .
'' i see a lot of woman and child wheel in , '' fare ghanem , a hospital official tell the associated press .
'' a lot of the wound be miss limb and a lot of the dead be in piece . '' .
maje hamdan , a ap photographer , who rush to the scene shortly after the attack , say many child be among the dead .
'' i see woman and man parent slapping they face in grief , scream , some of they collapse to the floor .
they know they child be dead , '' he say .
'' in the morgue , most of the kill appear to be child .
in the hospital , there be not enough space for the wound . '' .
elsewehere , at least 12 member of a extend family , include seven young child , be kill in a air strike on they house in gaza city .
the body of the daya family be pull from the rubble of a house in gaza city 's zeitoun district after it be hit by two israeli missile .
the dead include seven child age from one to 12 year , three woman and two man .
nine other people be believe to be trap in the rubble .
hour earlier , three young man - all cousin - die when the israelis bomb another un school , the asma primary school in gaza city .
they be among about 400 people who seek shelter there after flee they home in beit lahiya in northern gaza .
the un , which say the school in jabaliya be clearly marked , say it be '' strongly protest these killing to the israeli authority and be call for a immediate and impartial investigation '' .
'' where it be find that international humanitarian law have be violate , those responsible must be hold to account .
under international law , installation such as school , health centre and un facility should be protect from attack .
well before the current fighting , the un have give to the israeli authority the gp co-ordinate of all its installation in gaza , include asma elementary school . '' .
the killing take the total toll in palestinian life since the israelis launch they assault on the gaza strip 11 day ago to above 600 .
doctor at gaza hospital say that at least one-fifth of the victim be child and a large number of woman be among the dead .
israel continue to insist that the bulk of those kill be hama and islamic jihad fighter , although its claim to be go to extraordinary length to target only '' terrorist '' have be undermine by one of its own tank firing on a building be use by israeli troops , kill four .
the sharp spike in the number of civilian casualty come as israeli troops and tank move into gaza 's second largest city , khan younis , for the first time today , support by intensive artillery strike as the military pledge to press on with its attack .
in a separate attack earlier in the day , three palestinian be kill in a air strike on another school run by unwra , the un relief agency .
nine israeli , include three civilian hit by rocket fire , have be kill in the conflict .
at least five rocket fire from gaza land in israel today , include one that hit the town of gadera , 17 mile from tel aviv , police say .
a three-year-old girl be wound .
the heaviest fighting have be in northern gaza , with witness report wave after wave of bombing strike across the north of the territory accompany by gunfire from helicopter and artillery from land and sea .
thousand of palestinian have be order to leave they home or force to flee the fighting .
in shajaiyeh , east of gaza city , israeli troops seize control of three apartment block and set up gun position on the rooftop .
resident be lock in they home and soldier confiscate they mobile phone , neighbour say .
three of the four israeli soldier kill by friendly fire die when a tank mistakenly fire on a building where the soldier have take up position .
there be heavy artillery fire to cover the evacuation of 24 soldier who be injure , include the commander of the golani infantry brigade , one of israel 's key fighting force .
israel 's defence minister , ehud barak , say he country 's troops would continue they operation despite mount palestinian casualty and grow international call for a ceasefire .
'' hama have so far sustain a very heavy blow from we , but we have yet to achieve we objective , and therefore the operation continue , '' barak say .
the israeli foreign minister , tzipi livnus , say the offensive be intend to change permanently the shape of israel 's conflict with hama .
'' when israel be target , israel be go to retaliate , '' she say .
israel have reject call for a ceasefire .
the military say it have bomb more smuggling tunnel across the border with egypt , in the south , and hit more than 40 other site across gaza include building store weapon and rocket launching area .
in gaza , mahmoud zahar , the most senior leader of hama in the strip and a hardliner in the movement , appear on the party 's al-aqsa television station and give a defiant speech threaten attack not only in gaza but elsewhere .
'' the zionist have legitimise the killing of they child by kill we child .
they have legitimise the killing of they people all over the world by kill we people , '' zahar say .
he urge hama fighter to '' crush you enemy '' .
another hamas figure , a recognise military spokesman call abu ubaida , say thousand of hama fighter be wait in gaza to take on the israeli military , and that rocket attack would increase .
more than 40 be fire into southern israel yesterday , include one that land in a empty kindergarten , which , like all school near the gaza border , have be close since the conflict begin .
israeli police say a total of 520 rocket have be fire in the past 11 day of fighting .
israeli troops be now deploy in and around the major urban area of gaza , particularly to the north , in beit hanoun , beit lahiya and jabaliya .
use leaflet , telephone call and radio announcement , they have order resident in many area to leave they home , force at least 15,000 palestinian to flee to safety elsewhere .
at least 5,000 be stay in 11 different un school and shelter .
the un say more than 1 million gazan be still without electricity or water and that it be increasingly difficult for staff to distribute aid or reach the injure .
it say more industrial diesel be need to reopen the strip 's sole power plant , which have be shut for a week .
ten transformer have be damage in the fighting .
more wheat grain be need for food handout , and the un say karnus , the main commercial cross , should be reopen to allow it in .
four ambulance and three mobile clinic be destroy when bomb hit the headquarters of the union of health care committee in gaza city .
john holme , the un emergency relief coordinator , say gaza represent a '' increasingly alarming '' humanitarian crisis , and that the territory be run low on clean water , power , food , medicine and other supplies since israel begin its offensive .
israeli leader claim there be no humanitarian crisis .
sudan bomb south sudanese refugee camp , report say .
11 / 10 / 11 02 : 39 pm et .
military aircraft from sudan cross the new international border with south sudan and drop bomb thursday in and around a camp fill with refugee , official say .
a government official initially report death , but a american activist who speak to aid worker at the camp later say there be no casualty .
there be no immediate comment from the sudanese government in khartoum on thursday , as deadly fighting break out in the sudanese state of south kordofan between the military and force loyal to south sudan , accord to official sudanese media .
meanwhile , the violence in and near the yida refugee camp , located 10 mile -lrb- 15 kilometer -rrb- south of the border , come one day after bombing be report in another region of south sudan , a attack that provoke strong condemnation from the u . s . state department .
the president of south sudan , which become the world newest country only four month ago , say he fear the khartoum - base government intend to invade the south soon .
whatever allegation khartoum label against the republic of south sudan be baseless , but intend to justify he pend invasion of the south , '' president salva kiir say .
he later add : we be commit to peaceful resolution to any conflict but we will never allow we sovereignty to be violate by anybody . '' .
the violence be especially troubling give the history between the two side : the black african tribe of south sudan and the mainly arab north battle two civil war over more than five decade , and some 2 million die in the latest war , from 1983 - 2005 .
a peace deal end the war and south sudan become its own country in july after a successful independence referendum .
but there have be linger dispute over border demarcation and oil - share revenue .
ryan boyette , a former aid worker who live in sudan who be now lead a team of 15 citizen journalist , say he talk to five aid worker in the yida camp , all of whom say that four bomb be drop but that they cause no casualty .
boyette say a u . n . helicopter have land on a nearby airstrip right as the first bomb hit .
one of the bomb land in a school yard where about 300 student be attend class , but the bomb do not explode , boyette say , cite aid worker at the camp .
aleem siddique , a u . n . spokesman in south sudan , say : be concern for the safety of civilian in the area follow report of explosion and we be liaise with the authority . '' .
jonathan hutson , a spokesman for the u . s . advocacy group the enough project , say aid worker inside the yida refugee camp say at least one bomb land in the camp , and three or four fall outside it .
the aid worker or they group could not be name for security reason , hutson say .
hutson say at least 15 , 000 refugee who flee violence in sudan be live in the yida camp .
they walk at least seven day to reach the camp , he say .
miabek lang , the commissioner of pariang county in south sudan unity state , say earlier that 12 people be kill and 20 be wound in thursday bombing .
lang could not be reach again for clarification on the conflict report .
the wednesday bombing in upper nile state spark condemnation from the u . s . state department , which say the unacceptable and unjustified attack increase the potential of conflict between sudan and south sudan .
south sudan president say thursday that seven people be kill in those bombing .
john prendergast , the co - founder of the enough project , say the regime in khartoum , sudan capital , be attempt to provoke south sudan into restart a war .
the regime end game be to either capture south sudan oil field along they common border , or achieve a stronger negotiating position on shared oil revenue and border demarcation , '' prendergast say .
this provocation must be counter by the full force of the international community , or else a massive war could unfold . '' .
south sudan oil reserve must be pump through pipeline that run through sudan .
splitting the oil revenue have long be a major sticking point between the two side .
another major issue be the demarcation of the border .
though the country be now separate a official border have not yet be lay down .
sudan have accuse south sudan of arm pro - south sudan group in its territory .
but kiir say thursday that the accusation from khartoum be smoke screen to mask sudan support of armed group fight a proxy war against south sudan .
he comment come as sudan say a unspecified number of rebel , soldier and civilian be kill in clash in the border state of south kordofan in the town of talodi on thursday .
sudanese army spokesman khale saad , quote in the official news agency suna , say the military have repel a plan attack by force loyal to the southern movement , or sudan people liberation army , who hail from a minority ethnic group now in control of much of south sudan .
the un have dispute claim that hama militant fire mortar from the gaza school that have suffer the deadliest attack of the war with israel .
three shell hit fakhura , a girl elementary school in the jabalya refugee camp in northern gaza , at about 3pm on tuesday -lrb- 12am yesterday -rrb- , accord to un relief and work agency spokesman christopher gunness .
at least 43 people be kill and 55 wound in the school , where hundred of palestinian have seek refuge from the fighting , push the palestinian death toll above 680 since the conflict begin on december 27 .
two people be kill when a artillery shell hit a un school in the southern city of khan younis .
three people also die in a air strike on another un school in gaza city 's shati refugee camp in the centre of the strip .
the carnage appear to intensify international effort to arrange a ceasefire - just as deadly strike on civilian in previous conflict in lebanon raise pressure on israel to halt hostility .
israel move quickly to explain the attack on the jabalya school , say its force have be fire on first .
the casualty include hama militant imad and hassan abu askar , both of whom have fire mortar shell at troops from the school , military official say .
however , john ging , the top un refugee official in gaza , say un staff and palestinian family in the school compound have be screen for weapon , and he dispute israel 's claim that mortar be fire from inside .
'' as far as we be concern , that be not true , but if israel have evidence of that they need to provide it to a independent inquiry , '' mr ging say .
he add : '' there be nowhere safe in gaza .
everyone here be terrorise and traumatise . '' .
speak after a initial investigation last night , mr gunness deny militant be at the school .
'' we be 99.9 per cent sure that there be no militant or militant activity in the school and the school compound . '' .
mr gunness say earlier that school be clearly mark with a un flag and that the gp co-ordinate of all un installation in gaza have be give some time ago to the israelis .
he say unrwa want a impartial probe of the israeli shell that could also determine whether militant have use the school for a mortar attack .
mohammad awad , in hospital with shrapnel wound to the leg and face , say he have come to the school with he family after he house be destroy in the bombing of a neighbouring home of a hamas leader .
he and other man have be sit in the schoolyard when shell hit the compound .
'' i see body fly and people tear to piece , '' he say .
umm ibrahim say she have lose a eight-year-old daughter and two son , 11 and 14 .
she have come to the school after a phone warning from the israelis that the family house would be strike because one son be a hamas militant .
'' we escape death in we house , but it pursue we to the school , '' she say .
'' what can we do ?
where should we go ? '' .
although israel say its return fire land outside the school , witness describe a series of blast , which israeli official say suggest militant have rig the building with explosive .
'' we face a very delicate situation where hama be use the citizen of gaza as a protective vest , '' say military spokesman brigadier general avi benayahu .
the incident renew question about israel 's ability to wage a precision war in densely populated gaza even as its force push deeper into the narrow coastal territory .
heavy clash continue in the north yesterday and airstrike across the densely populated coastal strip .
a airstrike in the gaza city neighbourhood of zeitun , where much of the heavy fighting have take place since ground force invade on saturday , leave one armed militant dead and three wound , medic say .
clash be continue in zeitun , and there be report of airstrike on the southern city of khan younis and rafah .
one rocket make the deepest strike yet into israel - about 32km from tel aviv .
samaritan purse refugee camp bomb , allegedly by sudanese government .
november 14 , 2011 : 35 pm .
the government of sudan bomb the samaritan purse refugee camp in yida , south sudan , on thursday , nov . 10 , allege the nondenominational evangelical christian organization .
the camp , located in the oil - rich northern region of yida , consist of over 24 , 000 refugee who have flee the heavy fighting of sudan south kordofan region .
the camp at yida be a area of thick bush just about ten mile south of the generally recognize border between south sudan and sudan .
the bombing be a result of the heighten tension between sudan and south sudan .
south sudan gain its independence from sudan 6 month ago , end one of africa longest civil war .
sudan accuse south sudan of arm sudanese rebel in the border state of southern kordofan and the blue nile , accord to the new york time .
samaritan purse provide aid , both spiritually and physically , to those in need .
the organization use dc - 3 plane to deliver food to the refugee of yida .
the plane deliver six to seven load a day , three day a week .
the organization have drop 420 ton of food staple to the refugee , and be in connection with the u . n . 's world food program .
accord to a samaritan purse press release , sudan armed force plane drop four bomb at 3 : 20 p . m . in the region thursday .
ken isaac , vice president of program and government relation at samaritan purse , tell the christian post that the bombing as a terrifying event for all of the staff and the people in we community . '' .
one bomb hit a 200 - student schoolhouse but do not explode , another bomb hit the community marketplace and two other hit the outskirts of the camp .
the bomb do not do any damage and , accord to isaac , one bomb land just 5 foot away from a boy , but do not explode .
'' -lsb- the -rsb- minetech international -lrb- mti -rrb- explosive ordinance disposal -lrb- eod -rrb- team remove the bomb from the yida village school and move it to a isolate location for disposal at a later date , '' accord to the unite nation mine action coordination center of south sudan .
i urge the united state and the international community to enforce a no - fly zone in the area to protect not only the innocent civilian there but also those who be try to help they , '' samaritan purse president franklin graham say in a press release .
my prayer be that the world will not just sit by and watch and hope for the best like they do during rwanda , where close to a million people be massacre .
we need to make it clear to the government of sudan that attack on innocent people will not be tolerate , '' the evangelist say .
the white house have also condemn the bombing .
in a press statement release nov . 10 , the white house urge the government to stop the bombing immediately .
we urge the government of south sudan to exercise restraint in respond to this provocation to prevent further escalation of hostility , '' read the press release .
the refugee camp have just receive food ration when the bombing take place .
graham say these bombing be a tactic reminiscent of sudan civil war , use to injure and kill as many as possible .
the food be deliver , the attacker wait for people to gather to collect the food , and then they bomb the mass .
accord to the new york time , a satellite - imaging program reveal a build - up of sudanese troops near the south sudan border in the blue nile region .
image also reportedly reveal upgrade air basis recently capture by government force .
sudan government deny a connection to the bombing .
sudanese government spokesperson rabie a . atti defend the government sunday , say , we be only secure we border . '' .
susan rice , u . s . ambassador for the unite nation , say the sudan government blatantly lie about the bombing , add that such a lie prove very disturbing to the united state and many member of the u . n . security council .
as isaac of samaritan purse contend , sudan government deny any bombing in south sudan . '' .
what do they consider to be south sudan ? '' isaacs question , note that there be element of a border dispute , with yida be only 10 mile from the border .
describe yida as a very insecure area , isaacs express worry for the future of yida refugee .
the conflict and the insecurity be go to grow .
it be go to get worse before it get better , '' he say .
there be a need to relocate the people .
the area that have be offer for relocation be not agreeable , '' he add .
accord to isaac , food supplies be rapidly dwindle .
the refugee receive a three - day ration on oct . 29 , a one - day ration on nov . 7th and a one - day ration on nov . 11 .
we be look to world food programme and the unhcr to fully respond to the need -lsb- of the people -rsb- .
we appreciate what they do but we remain deeply concern for the people , '' isaac say .
t-mobile have officially announce that they will launch the new rim blackbery curve 8900 sometime in mid-february .
previously , the date of february 11 be leak .
the blackberry curve 8900 have a full-qwerty keyboard , gp , wi-fus and 512mhz processor .
it look like the device do not support 3g but do have world quad band support .
the 3.2-megapixel camera have image stabilization , digital zoom , flash and the ability to record video and play video , a music player , a 3.5 stereo headset jack and headset , and a hot-swappable microsd/sdhc memory card slot with a 256mb card insert that accept up to 16 gb .
t-mobile customer can get mobile coverage and unlimited nationwide wi-fus call with t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot call .
t - mobile will carry the blackberry q10 , business registration begin april 29th .
post apr 24th , 2013 at 12 : 28 pm .
more detail on the blackberry q10 release in the we be start to surface .
t - mobile confirm in a email that its business customer will have the opportunity to register for the device start next week on april 29th , with availability and pricing detail to follow at a later date . '' .
general consumer will likely have to wait a little longer , if t - mobile follow the same launch strategy that it do with the z10 .
of course , registration do actually equate to pre - order or actually purchase the phone yet - - all have hear from official channel be that will be come towards the end of may - - but it still a solid confirmation that qwerty fan will at least be able to get they bb10 on in the very near future .
t-mobile usa have just confirm the numerous rumor that it will introduce the latest model in the blackberry curve series next month .
'' with rich multimedia capability , exceptional mobile email and messaging feature , enhance web browsing , a premium phone and easy access to social networking community , include facebook , flickr , and myspace.com , the blackberry curve 8900 help you make the most of a busy lifestyle that span well beyond normal business hour , '' say mark guibert , vice president , corporate marketing , research in motion .
a overview of the blackberry curve 8900 .
the blackberry curve 8900 -- formerly know as the javelin -- will have a full qwerty keyboard and a 2.44-inch , hvga + -lrb- 480 by 360 pixel -rrb- display .
it will be the thinnest and lightest blackberry with a full keyboard .
this quad-band gsm smartphone will not have 3g , but it will include wi-fi b/g and bluetooth .
it will support t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot call service -- which use wi-fi voip -- as well as unlimited nationwide call to five people with the myfave service .
this smartphone will also have a 512 mhz processor , gp receiver , a 3.2 mpx camera , and a 1400 mahr battery .
it will include a microsd card slot and be bundle with a 256 mb card .
more information on the blackberry curve 8900 be available on rim 's website .
t-mobile usa say it will release this smartphone some time next month rumor say that the debut could be as early as feb. 11 .
pricing for this model be not yet know .
rumor have be float for week now and we know the 8900 would be come sometime in early '09 and tonight t-mobile have make it official .
however , the 8900 aka curve ii aka javelin will not be hit store shelf on the 11th or 18th accord to the press release .
t-mobile be be coy and say it be come sometime this month .
it could happen on those date , but t-mobile be not confirm anything today .
no word on price either .
1official spec after the jump .
rim and t-mobile usa have finally go official with the blackberry curve 8900 , just one day after the smartphone be see in one of t-mo 's retail store .
so now we know for sure that the new curve will be commercially available start february , although a exact release date and a price be not give yet .
the 8900 be the thinnest blackberry ever build -lrb- only 13.5 mm -rrb- , and it be also among the best look smartphone to come form rim .
add wi-fus , gp , a 3.2 autofocus camera and a nice 480 x 360 pixel display to that and you have a really cool handset .
the only thing that the curve 8900 be miss be 3g , but since t-mobile do not have a nationwide 3g coverage yet , i guess this be not such a big problem .
while wait for the new berry to be available , you can enter a t-mobile contest here , and maybe you will win one for free .
t-mobile be bolster its smartphone portfolio by pick up research in motion -lrb- nsdq : rimm -rrb- 's next-generation blackberry curve .
the curve 8900 be the latest refresh of the popular curve line , and it be the thinnest full-qwerty blackberry ever .
the smartphone also take some design cue from the blackberry bold , and it have a titanium-colored finish with chrome highlight .
the handset should be able to multitask smoothly , as it be power by a 512-mhz processor like other blackberry handset , the curve 8900 should have strong messaging capability .
user can get personal and corporate push e-mail from up to 10 account , and there be built-in instant messaging .
some user may be disappoint that the new curve can not use t-mobile 's grow 3g network , but the edge connection be more than capable of send and receive e-mail on the go .
there be also integrate wi-fus , and the curve 8900 can be use for unlimited wi-fus call with t-mobile 's hotspot call service .
'' with rich multimedia capability , exceptional mobile e-mail and messaging feature , enhance web browsing , a premium phone , and easy access to social networking community , include facebook , flickr , and myspace.com , the blackberry curve 8900 help you make the most of a busy lifestyle that span well beyond normal business hour , '' say mark guibert , vp of rim 's corporate marketing , in a statement .
the handset will come with built-in gp that can be use for location-based search and navigation .
the bluetooth version 2.0 can be use to pair headset , as well as for stereo bluetooth headphone .
it pack a 3.2-megapixel camera that also can be use to record video .
rim have be make stride with its multimedia capability , and the curve 8900 be no exception .
the handset will be able to play multiple type of audio , and video should look crisp with the display 's 480-by-360 resolution .
user will not have to worry about run out of storage space , as the smartphone come with a microsd slot that be expandable up to 16 gb .
t-mobile say the new curve will be available in february , but the company do not give a price .
t - mobile add blackberry q10 to its 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
may 14 , 2013 .
t - mobile continue to add to its grow line - up of 4g lte device by partner with blackberry to bring customer the blackberry q10 .
t - mobile be the only major u . s . wireless company to offer the q10 with no annual service contract plus unlimited talk , text and web on a fast , nationwide 4g network .
today , business customer can work directly with they b2b sale rep to order they blackberry q10 .
pricing for business customer begin at 119 . 99 with qualify plan .
the blackberry q10 be expect to be available for t - mobile consumer customer in june for 99 . 99 down with 24 equal monthly payment of 20 for well - qualified buyer for 0 apr o . a . c .
the smartphone will be available in t - mobile retail store , via www . t - mobile . com and through select dealer and national retail store .
consumer customer interested in the q10 can register at http : / / explore . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
device feature .
the new smartphone combine feature blackberry be know for - the blackberry qwerty keyboard and security - with a 3 . 1 touch screen , the power of the blackberry 10 platform and 4g lte and hd voice capability for a premium customer experience .
blackberry hub help manage personal and professional conversation , bbm message , social media update , or notification with the ability to peek into the hub from anywhere .
follow research in motion 's blackberry bold and blackberry storm entry into the u.s. smartphone market , t-mobile 's blackberry curve 8900 be the thinnest and lightest qwerty device of the burgeon blackberry line of smartphone .
the new device feature built-in gp and wi-fus support voice and datum in addition to the now usual smartphone lineup of a web browser , music player and camera .
t-mobile usa plan it own exclusive blackberry with the introduction of the blackberry curve 8900 in february .
at and t already have its own deal with blackberry maker research in motion to offer the blackberry bold , while verizon feature the blackberry storm as a smartphone .
the new hybrid , quad-band curve 8900 be the thinnest and lightest qwerty device of the burgeon blackberry line of smartphone .
in addition to the popular keyboard , the device feature built-in gp and support of location-based service , built-in wi-fi 802.11 support voice and datum , and support for t-mobile 's unlimited hot spot call service .
in addition , the device have a 3.2-megapixel camera , a music player and a hot-swappable microsd/sdhc memory card slot with a 256mb card .
the new curve also come with support for memory card up to 16gb .
as a quad-band world phone , the blackberry curve 8900 support international roaming , extend the ability to stay connect while travel abroad .
rim claim the 8900 's screen be the highest resolution available on a blackberry smartphone .
the device also come with a 512mhz next-generation processor , although t-mobile plan to wed the device to its 2g edge network .
like other high-end blackberry , the curve 8900 have enhance web browse and access to social networking community , include facebook , flickr and myspace .
neither rim nor t-mobile have announce u.s. pricing plan for the curve 8900 , but the device , which be already on the market in canada , sell over the internet at price range from $ 500 to $ 550 .
t - mobile usa announce blackberry q10 availability .
april 24 , 2013 .
t - mobile announce today that the blackberry q10 smartphone device will be add to its grow 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
begin april 29th , business customer interested in register for the blackberry can do so at .
http : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
t - mobile on the blackberry q10 .
t - mobile usa continue to add to its grow 4g lte smartphone portfolio with the blackberry q10 .
the blackberry q10 combine blackberry classic qwerty keyboard and a touch screen with the power of the blackberry 10 platform that deliver all the speed and connectivity customer demand to help they keep move .
t - mobile customer can take advantage of the blackberry q10 smartphone premium hardware , advance communication and multimedia feature on a blaze - fast nationwide 4g network .
with the powerful combination of blackberry new blackberry 10 platform , the company long - stand security feature and blackberry best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for we business customer , '' say draw kelton , executive vice president of business market at t - mobile .
great news for all t - mobile business and non - business customer as the blackberry q10 from t - mobile will be available very soon .
additional detail , include availability and pricing , will be share at a later date .
on monday , we report on rumor that t-mobile would release the rim blackberry curve 8900 on february 11 , and while the date have not be confirm , the carrier do go ahead and make the official product announcement on tuesday .
yes , the blackberry curve 8900 will make its way to t-mobile some time in february and be be tout as the thinnest and lightest full qwerty blackberry to date .
as expect , it will have integrate bluetooth and gp and we now know it will have built-in wi-fus as well as support for t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot call service .
unfortunately , there be no 3g love .
there be plenty of other highlight , though , include a 3.2-megapixel camera , a 3.5 headphone jack , a microsd/sdhc expansion slot -lrb- support up to 16gb card -rrb- , and a 512mhz processor .
pricing and a official release date be not release , but customer can sign up for alert on t-mobile 's web site .
t - mobile confirm qwerty - base blackberry q10 availability .
blackberry fan take note as t - mobile have confirm the availability of the qwerty - base q10 .
business customer will get first crack with registration beginning april 29th , with consumer availability come sometime afterwards .
t - mobile say additional detail , include availability and pricing , will be share at a later date . '' .
word have it that the april 29th registration for business customer will turn into a late may launch , but be happy with confirmation that blackberry fan have another choice in the future .
the q10 feature .
3 . 1 superamoled display , 720 resolution at 330ppus .
blackberry 10 os .
dual - core 1 . 5ghz processor .
35 - key physical qwerty keyboard .
2gb ram .
16gb internal memory .
8 megapixel rear face camera .
1080p video recording .
2 megapixel front - face camera .
lte , hspa connectivity .
nfc .
statement .
t - mobile usa continue to add to its grow 4g lte smartphone portfolio with the blackberry q10 .
the blackberry q10 combine blackberry classic qwerty keyboard and a touch screen with the power of the blackberry 10 platform that deliver all the speed and connectivity customer demand to help they keep move .
t - mobile customer can take advantage of the blackberry q10 smartphone premium hardware , advance communication and multimedia feature on a blaze - fast nationwide 4g network .
with the powerful combination of blackberry new blackberry 10 platform , the company long - stand security feature and blackberry best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for we business customer , '' say draw kelton , executive vice president of business market at t - mobile .
begin april 29th , business customer interested in the blackberry q10 from t - mobile can register athttp : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
additional detail , include availability and pricing , will be share at a later date .
t-mobile usa , inc. and research in motion today announce that t-mobile will offer the blackberry curve 8900 to customer in february .
the announcement confirm rumor from december .
the 8900 be the thinnest full-qwerty blackberry smartphone yet .
like its predecessor , the 8320 , the 8900 be fully-featured with connectivity option include a built-in gp and wifus , something that user of t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot call service should be excite about .
of course , the curve 8900 have a impressive list of feature of its own .
it have be upgrade with a 3.2-megapixel camera with image stabilization and video compatibility .
it sport a 512mhz processor and at 480 x 360 , its the highest resolution screen available on a blackberry .
it support microsd card up to 16gb -lrb- like the new sandisk memory card announce today -rrb- .
last , the curve 's quad-band radio , with support for international roaming , should please the jet-setter .
look for it next month at t-mobile retail store , authorize dealer , and online .
t - mobile we confirm they will carry the blackberry q10 .
on april 24th , 2013 .
we can expect more carrier to be come out talk about the q10 but t - mobile be the first in the we .
they just confirm that they will carry the device though they say nothing about availability and pricing .
they do say that after april 29th business customer will be able to register for the q10 at this link .
my guess be they will open up preorder for business customer about 2 week before normal launch .
here be how they describe the device .
t - mobile usa continue to add to its grow 4g lte smartphone portfolio with the blackberry q10 .
the blackberry q10 combine blackberry classic qwerty keyboard and a touch screen with the power of the blackberry 10 platform that deliver all the speed and connectivity customer demand to help they keep move .
t - mobile customer can take advantage of the blackberry q10 smartphone premium hardware , advance communication and multimedia feature on a blaze - fast nationwide 4g network .
with the powerful combination of blackberry new blackberry 10 platform , the company long - stand security feature and blackberry best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for we business customer , '' say draw kelton , executive vice president of business market at t - mobile .
t-mobile usa will launch research in motion 's blackberry curve 8900 in february , further strengthen its smartphone lineup in 2009 .
the quad-band global phone have a full qwerty keyboard and built-in gp and wifus capability .
it also have 3.2-megapixel camera , a music player , a 3.5 stereo headset jack and a microsd slot capable of hold up to 16gb .
the device , along with the shadow ii and rumor samsung memoir , which will carry a 8-megapixel camera , beef up the carrier 's smartphone portfolio as it look to expand its 3g umt network into 2009 .
t-mobile have not release a specific launch date or pricing information .
t - mobile blackberry q10 pre - order begin april 29th for business customer .
on april 24 , 2013 .
t - mobile today announce that the blackberry q10 will be add to its grow 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
begin april 29th , business customer interested in register for the blackberry q10 can visit http : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
additional detail , include availability and pricing , will be share at a later date .
general consumer can expect the blackberry q10 to become available later on in may .
t-mobile have announce it will be carry the blackberry curve 8900 smartphone this february ... although it will not offer 3g datum service .
u.s. mobile operator t-mobile have officially announce it will be offer the blackberry curve 8900 smartphone this february .
bill as rim 's lightest and thinnest qwerty keyboard-equipped smartphone , the blackberry curve 8900 feature a 3.2 megapixel camera -lrb- plus a additional front-facing 400 by 352-pixel video camera for video call -rrb- , sdhc/microsd card support for up to 16 gb of storage , integrate wi-fi 80211b/g wireless networking , and gp support .
the curve 8900 also pack a 2.44-inch 480 by 360-pixel color lcd display , and include a handsfree speakerphone as well as bluetooth wireless device support .
accord to rim , the unit offer up to 5.5 hour of talk time and as much as 15 day of standby time .
t-mobile have not reveal a official release date or pricing information for the blackberry curve 8900 , although the unit will work with t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot wi-fus base call service .
however , the 8900 will not offer 3g connectivity : user will have to paddle along on gsm/gprs and edge connectivity .
of course , the phone will include blackberry software , include full html web browsing , blackberry map , a enhance media player , as well as access to corporate communication system and we hear the device will even make phone call .
t - mobile add blackberry q10 to its 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
post at 10 : 04 be on may 14 , 2013 .
t - mobile have announce that the blackberry q10 be come to they network .
this device be available for order today for business customer at a price of 119 . 99 .
consumer will be able to get they hand on the q10 beginning in june for 99 down with 20 additional monthly payment of 20 .
the q10 will be available in t - mobile retail store , online at t - mobile . com , and at various retail partner .
interested customer can register for update on the q10 at the link below .
well that be a neat little progression : early suspicion , follow by a purported internal leak , cap with a official announcement .
t-mobile will be add the blackberry curve 8900 to they lineup come february .
the press release do not get any more specific than that , but seem to lend authority to the previous leak , which indicate that the 18th would be the day .
t - mobile confirm it will carry blackberry q10 .
wednesday , april 24th , 2013 at 10 : 40 be .
for those of you who have be wait for blackberry new q10 handset , that wait be get shorter .
t - mobile have announce that it will be carry the keyboard tout q10 , with pre - registration start on april 29th .
pricing and release date be still tbd , but by sign up for alert on t - mobile website you will be one of the first to know .
if blackberry release of the z10 to business customer first be any sign , we may very well see the same approach when it come to release the q10 , mean that normal consumer may have to wait a little longer for they chance to purchase one of the device .
although release detail be still absent , this e - mail assure we that t - mobile will in fact be carry the q10 in the future .
the q10 have be previously rumor to be release sometime in may , which seem reasonable give the timing of t - mobile announcement today , as well as blackberry announcement of the device make its way to canada on may 1st .
official pr text follow below .
t - mobile today announce that the blackberry q10 will be add to its grow 4g lte smartphone portfolio .
begin april 29th , business customer interested in register for the blackberry q10 can visit http : / / business . t - mobile . com / blackberry - q10 .
additional detail , include availability and pricing , will be share at a later date .
t-mobile today announce the blackberry curve 8900 , the thinnest and lightest full-qwerty blackberry smartphone .
the blackberry curve 8900 feature a titanium-colored finish with chrome highlight .
it combine a compact design with a full-qwerty keyboard , 512mhz processor for fast and responsive performance , and built-in gp and wi-fus -lrb- 802.11 b/g -rrb- connectivity .
the smartphone have a 3.2-megapixel camera with image stabilization , digital zoom , flash and the ability to record video and play video .
it also feature a music player with a 3.5 stereo headset jack and headset .
include with a 256mb memory card , consumer can purchase extra memory for the hot-swappable microsd/sdhc slot -lrb- with support for memory card up to 16gb -rrb- .
the quad-band blackberry curve 8900 support international roaming .
customer can get unlimited nationwide wi-fus call with t-mobile 's unlimited hotspot call service .
'' the new blackberry curve 8900 feature a compact and refined design that look and feel great , '' say mark guibert , vice president of research in motion .
'' with rich multimedia capability , exceptional mobile email and messaging feature , enhance web browsing , a premium phone and easy access to social networking community , include facebook , flickr and myspace , the blackberry curve 8900 help you make the most of a busy lifestyle that span well beyond normal business hour . '' .
the new blackberry curve 8900 smartphone from t-mobile be anticipate to be available in february at t-mobile store and online .
t - mobile will carry the blackberry q10 .
publish april 24th 2013 - 17 : 59 .
t - mobile have announce it will carry the blackberry q10 , and business registration will begin at t - mobile . com on april 29 .
here the official email t - mobile send to its business customer .
the q10 ship with blackberry balance , for keep you work and personal information separate , blackberry remember , blackberry hub and bbm video with screen share .
the bb q10 also feature a 3 . 1 inch ole display , blackberry tag with nfc technology , a qwerty keyboard and a 8mp rear - face camera .
the q10 be available with 16gb of internal storage and be 4g lte capable .
research in motion today announce that t-mobile usa will start sell the new blackberry curve 8900 smartphone to its customer .
dub as the thinnest and lightest qwerty blackberry , the curve 8900 will feature built-in gp with support of location-based service , wifus with voice and datum support , a 3.2 megapixel camera with digital zoom , image stabilization and flash , video recording and playback , a music player , a 3.5 stereo headset jack and a microsd/sdhc memory card slot with a 256mb card include in the box .
all this run on 512mhz processor .
t-mobile be expect to launch the blackberry curve 8900 smartphone in mid-february .
price have not be reveal .
blackberry q10 preorder launch on t - mobile april 29 .
april 24 , 2013 .
blackberry -lrb- nasdaq : bbry -rrb- new q10 smartphone will be available for preorder for business customer on t - mobile website april 29 , accord to a online statement by the carrier .
the q10 will sport 4g lte connectivity , with a physical keyboard and touchscreen display .
the new smartphone will add to a grow list of t - mobile 4g lte phone , include the recent iphone , which launch on the carrier earlier this month .
draw kelton , executive vice president of business market at t - mobile , say , with the powerful combination of blackberry new blackberry 10 platform , the company long - stand security feature , and blackberry best qwerty keyboard , the blackberry q10 will be another great smartphone option for we business customer . '' .
t - mobile recently run into problem sell the much - anticipate samsung galaxy s4 , push the online order date back from april 24 to april 29 .
t - mobile and blackberry have say when the q10 will be available , or what the price will be .
-lrb- ... ... ... -rrb- .
amd buy seamicro , start sell intel - base server .
on march 1 , 2012 at 8 : 12 be .
in a unprecedented move that suggest that there might be life in the old dog yet , amd have acquire seamicro , a company that build high - density , low - power server use intel cpus .
the deal cost amd 334 million -lrb- 281m in cash -rrb- , a fairly sizable chunk of change when you consider that its yearly profit be usually around the 400 million mark .
if you haven '' t hear of seamicro before , they '' be essentially a silicon valley startup build around a technology call freedom fabric , a asic -lrb- application - specific integrate circuit -rrb- that allow a computer to be scale down to a motherboard the size of a deck of play card .
these tiny computer -lrb- each one contain a atom or xeon cpu , some dram , and the freedom fabric asic -rrb- be then stack together to form very - high - density server -lrb- picture above -rrb- .
these server brick be just 10u in size , contain up to 768 cpus , and include four gigabit ethernet switch and a load balancer .
to achieve the same kind of processing power with conventional rackmount server you would need two full rack -lrb- 84u ! -rrb- of dual - socket quad - core server and network gear .
the seamicro server brick use a quarter of the power , too , because the custom cpu - dram - asic contain absolutely no hardware cruft that leech power .
in short , with energy price increase , datum center real estate as costly as ever , and the web show no sign of slow down , seamicro server be really rather desirable .
more than miniaturization , though , freedom fabric be also compatible with multiple instruction set and allow for complete hardware virtualization ; both very desirable property in this age of cloud computing .
but why do amd buy seamicro ?
as it stand , seamicro have a tight partnership with intel , and every seamicro server use intel chip .
accord to amd , seamicro will sell intel - base server '' for the foreseeable future , '' but a opteron - base solution should arrive by the end of the year .
in all likelihood , amd probably see seamicro as a excellent way of bolster its presence in the incredibly lucrative -lrb- and rapidly expand -rrb- server market .
with seamicro , amd can deal directly with company look for server , cut out the -lrb- very profitable -rrb- hp , dell , or ibm middle man .
the server space be one area that amd still seem to be able compete with intel and with freedom fabric amd might once again become a compelling choice .
february 29 , 2012 , 7 : 32 p . m . et .
amd to acquire server start - up .
advanced micro device inc . , amd +0 . 26 vow to change the game in its longtime competition with intel corp . , intc +0 . 93 have forge a deal to buy a silicon valley start - up that take the chip maker into the server business .
the sunnyvale , calif . , company say it will pay 334 million for seamicro inc . , a company know for product call micro server that pack together many chip in way that save space and energy .
such product be particularly popular among company that buy server in huge volume to run popular consumer website .
amd have long battle intel in make chip for server , as well as pc , but it have struggle lately in the larger system because of late product and other issue .
both company , meanwhile , face increase competition from company make lower - power chip that be base on architecture develop by arm holding plc .
last year , hewlett - packard co . announce a partnership with calxeda inc . , a start - up make arm - base micro server .
most chip maker avoid sell system that use they chip , because such move can put they in competition with they customer .
but rory read , a former lenovo group ltd . executive who become amd chief executive in august , have stress the need for unconventional tactic against its much - larger rival .
in a briefing wednesday , amd executive stress that the main motivation of buy seamicro be not to sell server but to offer communication technology and other element develop by seamicro to allow other server maker to make similar product .
we be not intend to compete with we customer , '' say lisa su , who recently join amd to serve as senior vice president and general manager for global business unit .
on the other hand , amd plan to keep support seamicro exist customer by sell server for the foreseeable future , '' m . su say .
those system now use intel chip .
but amd plan to also offer system that use amd opteron chip for server in the second half of the year , the company say .
mr . read have already indicate that amd in the future might offer customer the choice of product that include arm technology .
seamicro , meanwhile , have indicate its technology be also design to support arm as well as the x86 chip sell by amd and intel .
seamicro chief executive andrew feldman , who will become general manager of amd newly create datum - center server solution business , say the company have more than one interested bidder .
but he say it be attract by amd management open attitude toward issue such as support other chip design , as well as a desire to propagate its technology faster than a start - up can .
we come to believe the way to grab this opportunity be the drive of a much larger company , '' mr . feldman say .
the start - up , also base in sunnyvale , originally pass up intel mainstream offering for server , a chip call xeon that be a workhorse for company around the around the world .
seamicro take intel tiny , relatively low - power atom chip know for use in inexpensive laptop computer call netbook and now in smartphone package it for use in datum center .
seamicro last month hold a event with intel and samsung electronics co . to detail plan to use xeon chip in its new machine .
that shift , the company say at the time , allow customer to use its machine for a array of new task that could be address before , such as run web database rather than simply serve up web page .
mr . feldman say wednesday that amd opteron chip would further expand the kind of application that would fit its technology .
jason waxman , intel general manager for cloud computing , say it have enjoy its relationship with seamicro and expect to keep supply chip to the company as part of amd , while work with other maker of micro server .
he note that intel have also be acquire communication - related technology so amd motivation be understandable .
you need a broader technology portfolio to service the need of customer in this market , '' mr . waxman say .
evercore analyst patrick wang say the acquisition be surprising but likely indicate amd commitment to the datum center and cloud computing .
this be the next step in that direction , '' mr . wang say .
but it a very unconventional step . '' .
mr . wang say amd likely be use the purchase to acquire server intellectual property , particularly for the high - performance technology , know as a fabric , that connect all the different processor and disk drive to each other .
the approach allow datum to pass more quickly and efficiently .
supermicro be very successful right now , '' he say .
amd say 281 million of the purchase price for seamicro will be in cash .
the company say the acquisition do change its 2012 financial guidance and the transaction be expect to be add to earnings after 2012 .
amd to acquire server innovator seamicro .
february 29th , 2012 .
in a bold move to boost its position in next - generation server , amd will acquire low - power server specialist seamicro for 334 million , the company say today .
the acquisition be a disruptive one for the low - power server landscape , as seamicro have be use intel chip in its next - generation server , which offer dramatic reduction in power and space usage .
the crown jewel in the acquisition be seamicro '' s network fabric , which allow hundred of low - power processor to work together .
the seamicro architecture be processor - neutral , mean it can be quickly adapt to work with amd '' s technology .
'' by acquire seamicro , we be accelerate amd '' s transformation into a agile , disruptive innovator capable of stake a data center leadership position , '' say rory read , president and ceo , amd .
'' seamicro be a pioneer in low - power server technology .
'' we be clearly skate to where the puck be go , '' read add .
'' this be a great company with innovative ip and great talent . '' .
the importance of the cloud .
amd plan to offer the first amd opteron processor - base solution that combine amd and seamicro technology in the second half of 2012 .
the company say it remain firmly commit to its traditional server business , and will continue to invest in research and development .
but amd executive say the acquisition of seamicro will boost the company '' s offering for cloud computing provider , who be keenly focus on reduce the energy use by they armada of server .
'' cloud datum center be the fastest grow segment of the server market , '' say lisa su , senior vice president and general manager , global business unit .
'' the cloud have change the dynamics of the datum center and how people think about server . '' .
su say amd will offer seamicro server with amd chip to provide continuity for exist customer .
but the primary focus will be on integrate seamicro '' s fabric technology with amd processor in '' building block '' for its oem customer .
downsize '' build block '' .
the basic building block of the seamicro system be a credit card - size compute block , comprise of a cpu and its chipset , dram , and a custom seamicro asic -lrb- application specific integrate circuit -rrb- .
seamicro '' s patent i / o virtualization allow company to save money by use fewer cable and network interface card -lrb- nic -rrb- to connect to network and storage .
seamicro '' s early system feature up to 768 intel atom core in a 10u server .
it recently introduce a server power by 64 intel xeon processor , provide a '' brawny '' offering to supplement the '' wimpy '' atom node .
one of the benefit of the amd acquisition be the ability to adapt seamicro '' s technology to a broader range of workload and application , accord the seamicro ceo andrew feldman .
'' seamicro be found to dramatically reduce the power consume by server , while increase compute density and bandwidth , '' say feldman , who will become general manager of amd '' be newly create datum center server solution business .
'' by become a part of amd , we will have access to new market , resource , technology , and scale that will provide we with the opportunity to work tightly with we oem partner as we fundamentally change the server market . '' .
amd acquire seamicro to grab share of microserver market .
amd 334 million deal with seamicro be a strong move to improve within the ... .
mar 1 2012 , 2 : 35am cet .
amd have make a 334 million bet on the energy - efficient microserver market .
on wednesday afternoon , the company announce that they have reach a 334 million agreement , to purchase seamicro , a successful microserver manufacturer .
launch in 2007 , seamicro quickly gain attention for they ability to combine cheap , low - end processor that could handle web - centric server workload .
the company work closely , if not exclusively , with intel processor in recent year .
seamicro current sm server line use intel atom and sandy bridge processor .
'' by acquire seamicro , we be accelerate amd '' s transformation into a agile , disruptive innovator capable of stake a data center leadership position , '' say rory read , amd president and ceo , in today news release .
for now , amd will continue to sell seamicro server base on intel atom processor accord to pc world .
however , amd expect to release the first seamicro server base on amd opteron processor within the year .
amd to acquire microserver vendor seamicro - - a user of intel chip .
advanced micro device to acquire microserver vendor seamicro for 334 million .
to date , seamicro have use chip from intel .
february 29 , 2012 3 : 24 pm pst .
advanced micro device will acquire server vendor seamicro in a attempt to make a run at intel in the microserver market .
amd say it have sign a definitive agreement to acquire seamicro , a company that supply energy - efficient microserver , for approximately 334 million .
to date , seamicro server have be use intel atom and xeon processor .
future plan call for seamicro to build server with amd opteron chip .
amd plan to offer the first amd opteron processor - base solution that combine amd and seamicro technology in the second half of 2012 .
the company remain firmly commit to its traditional server business , and will continue to focus and invest in this area , '' amd say in a statement .
seamicro innovation include its supercompute fabric , which connect thousand of processor core , memory , storage , and input / output traffic .
seamicro fabric support multiple processor instruction set .
seamicro be found to dramatically reduce the power consume by server , while increase compute density and bandwidth , '' say andrew feldman , seamicro ceo , who will become general manager of amd newly create datum center server solution business .
amd snap up server upstart seamicro .
jumpstart a cloudy server biz with a interconnect .
29th february 2012 .
amd new ceo rory read be fire up about execute better in the server racket at the company analyst day earlier this month and have waste little time in stir thing up with the acquisition of low - power server start - up seamicro for 334m .
seamicro be the server upstart found four and a half year ago that come out of stealth in june 2010 with a atom bomb : a 10u chassis cram with 512 single - core atom server in a 10u chassis , all link by a 1 . 28tb / sec 3d torus interconnect implement on a asic that also virtualize all i / o in the cluster of server node and provide load balancing across those node .
over time , seamicro have add 64 - bit atom , boost the number of atom processor and main memory in the system , and only a month ago announce a variant that use single - socket xeon e3 - 1260l processor to give the sm10000 system some brawny core to do heavier computational task .
the acquisition of seamicro will no doubt irk intel , which have use seamicro as a poster child for its microserver and cloud computing effort in the past two year .
so there some public relation fun in that .
but there not much intel can do about seamicro be in amd hand .
in a conference call with wall street analyst announce the deal after the market close , andrew feldman , seamicro ceo and co - founder , say that he company have be buy atom processor and chipset from the distribution channel , not from intel .
seamicro do not anticipate any change in get its supply of atom and xeon processor or build system for current and future customer .
in the call , read reiterate that amd be seize the inflection point in the server business .
the acquisition of seamicro , which along with cisco system be one of the first new entrant in the server racket in year to actually look like it have a chance of make it , would accelerate out transformation into a agile and disruptive innovator . '' .
as we can now see , look at the past month in hindsight , be that amd figure out that be need to hunker down on its opteron processor roadmap and not force server maker to absorb a socket change in 2012 , as be the original plan , but rather to get a improve piledriver core for opteron processor into the field this year and do lot of performance tuning to show what bulldozer class of chip can really do .
the company then look around and decide that it do need a new chip or chipset so much as a whole different set of technology to sell to its server oem partner .
that where seamicro come in .
much will be make of amd enter the server business with the acquisition of seamicro .
but that not the point , even if it will be technically true over the next month .
lisa su , senior vice president and general manager of the new global business unit at amd , who be task with make sure the company have the component from which server maker want to build system , put the kibosh on that idea .
this be a technology play for we , '' su explain , call the interconnect use at the heart of the seamicro system a unique technology that would be a building block that amd integrate with its processor and chipset and then in turn sell to server maker .
the company will work now to get amd opteron server processor embed in the seamicro machine , which it expect to have accomplish by the second half of this year .
the company will not divulge what opteron chip it will weld onto the seamicro server board , but it stand to reason that it would be a low - voltage opteron 3200 or 4200 part .
in a interview with el reg , mark papermaster , amd cto , deflect all of the interesting question about how the seamicro 3d torus interconnect might be use , such as extend it beyond one chassis to span multiple chassis under a single management and cluster domain , or maybe add cache coherence and share main memory across all or a portion of a seamicro server node .
the acquisition , say papermaster , allow we to redefine the server building block , '' and he note that amd be keen on become a agile soc company , '' refer to system - on - chip design that put processor and other system element into a single piece of glass .
and he confirm el reg sense that amd be not get into the server business .
you have that exactly right , '' say papermaster .
when ask about when amd and seamicro start talk , papermaster would not be specific , except to say that amd move very , very rapidly . '' .
this be quite possibly to keep someone else from buy seamicro and very certainly in part as a reaction to intel purchase of the infiniband networking business from qlogic back in january for 125m .
papermaster would not comment on rumor that amd have be take a look at arm server chip maker calxeda , but it could very well turn out that if amd have try to do that deal , it might be grateful that it fall through .
the seamicro deal be a much better option if it want to sell server interconnect and help oem customer build cloudy server and maybe even cluster supercomputer base on the seamicro freedom fabric , as the latest generation be call .
that fabric be processor and instruction set agnostic , as feldman have say many time , and seamicro only start out on atom processor because they give the best bang for the watt .
and it could turn out that calxeda and amd partner to make arm server somewhere down the road .
why not ?
read want to make sure that everyone understand that the seamicro acquisition would have no effect on the company 2012 and 2013 opteron processor roadmap and system plan , and that amd be not leave the traditional x86 server business .
be in that business to stay , and be go to grow it and invest in it , '' read say .
amd be pay 281m in cash and 53m in stock to acquire privately hold seamicro , which raise 35m in two round of funding and also get 9 . 3m in funding from the we government as part of the 787bn american recovery and reinvestment act -lrb- arra -rrb- of 2009 .
feldman be stay on at amd after the acquisition close and will be general manager of a new datum center server solution business unit , report to su .
both chipmaker be bullish about combine , but a key issue for they will be convincing skeptic they should join together in the first place .
advanced micro device -lrb- amd -rrb- chief executive hector ruiz wax metaphorical as he describe he company 's acquisition of ati technology -lrb- atyt -rrb- .
chipmaker amd , hope to gain a leg up on a resurgent rival intel -lrb- intc -rrb- , on july 24 end month of speculation by say it would buy graphic chipmaker ati for about $ 5.4 billion .
'' we will move from be neighbor to be a family , '' ruiz tell analyst on a conference call .
the two company have long partner in the competitive market for chip that run personal computer and consumer electronics .
but under the same roof , the company will focus on innovation that be particularly attractive to corporate and mobile-computing customer , ruiz believe .
the enlarged chipmaker will combine amd 's strength in fast-computing power with ati 's specialty in deliver detailed graphic onto a single , low-cost chip .
but the problem with families-especially those form by multibillion-dollar corporate mergers-is that they often end up dysfunctional .
promise cost savings and sale increase do not always pan out , and integration of disparate culture and operation be frequently fraught with value-destroying rift .
maybe that be why intel and nvidia -lrb- nvda -rrb- , the company ' two biggest rival , find a lot to smile about on july 24 , the day the deal be announce .
'' i think it be just impossible to get a gift like this , '' crow nvidia ceo jen-hsun huang , in a interview with businessweek.com .
ati be '' basically throw in the towel , leave we as the only stand-alone -lrb- graphic chip -rrb- company in the world . '' .
intel , the world 's largest graphics-chipmaker , decline to comment specifically on the deal .
but company exec have note intel continue to improve its own graphic chipset and that it expect to deliver platform of product , like centrino , that amd can not easily match .
investor be not too sure how happy the amd and ati family will turn out to be , either .
amd share fall almost 5 % on july 24 , to $ 17.40 , extend recent decline fuel by concern amd will be the biggest loser amid a escalate pc industry price war .
'' the assumption of a significant amount of new debt and the need to address integration issue at a time when amd have be seek to step up its competitive pressure in a fierce environment with intel be likely to weigh on amd 's share , '' lehman brother semiconductor analyst tim luke note in a report .
indeed , amd and ati could be distract from they core business for month as they combine into a company with $ 7.3 billion in annual sale and 15,000 employee sprawl through canada , california , and texa .
credit-rating agency fitch rating lower its outlook on amd 's debt to negative from positive on concern the chipmaker 's debt-to-capital ratio will jump to 37 % from less than 10 % because of a $ 2.5 billion term loan it be use to partially finance the deal .
the merger also could lock ati out of the business of supply graphic chipset to intel-based pc , worth about $ 90 million a year in revenue .
ati chipset connect to intel 's processor through what be know as a front side bus , which serve as a highway for transfer datum .
but amd , under a different licensing deal with intel , be not allow to use that front side bus .
'' we be evaluate the deal , and have get a lot to figure out how it would fit in with we exist agreement with both atus and amd , '' intel spokesman chuck mulloy say .
and while ati and amd be busy iron out they new relationship , intel and nvidia be roll out some heavy-hitting chip of they own .
intel and its pc partner on july 27 begin ship for the first chip in a brand-new pc architecture call core 2 duo -lrb- see businessweek.com , 7/24/06 , '' intel sharpen its offensive game '' -rrb- .
first up will be desktop chip , follow closely by new energy-sipping chip for notebook pc .
core 2 duo be expect to wrest the performance crown in the mainstream pc market from amd for the first time in more than two year .
amd will not get a chance to grab it back until mid-2007 , when it be fully ramp on a new manufacturing process .
meantime , nvidia be prep to deliver a new high-end graphic chip later this year that company executive herald as the biggest leap forward in nearly a decade .
after a high-profile delay in deliver a new chip in 2001 , nvidia have be steadily take market share from ati in the lucrative market supply screaming-fast graphic card to the discriminate gaming community .
amd say there be plenty of reason to be bullish on the deal .
the company have its sight on market where nvidia and intel be not as strong .
amd president dirk meyer hope to use ati 's chipset business to develop a energy-sipping combo processing and graphic chip that can be pair with software partner to deliver a platform better able to compete with intel 's new vpro offering .
intel have win early praise from software company and large business for vpro , which bake security and virtualization directly into the chip .
with vpro , tech administrator manage thousand of pc could partition part of the system from workers-a feature that could keep virus from rapidly spread across corporate network .
and ati 's grow business of provide graphic chipset to cell-phone maker nokia -lrb- nok -rrb- and motorola -lrb- mot -rrb- also will give it up a leg up over intel , he say .
intel recently sell its cellular chip business to marvell technology -lrb- mrvl -rrb- for $ 600 million .
'' customer want to get better mobile offering and more stable commercial offering , but they want to know that we be still go to offer they the ability to choose , '' meyer say .
even if relation between amd and nvidia turn frosty and ati lose intel 's business , amd executive predict a combined offering would bring in a additional $ 300 million in revenue in the pc realm alone for every share point gain against intel .
still , not everyone 's sell pip coburn , founder of tech advisory firm coburn venture , note amd have pin its success on a range of variable .
'' i do not want six reason , '' coburn say .
'' i want two reason , two good reason . '' .
amd 's meyer say he know the company have some heavy lifting ahead .
'' the integration task be go to require focus , '' he say .
the biggest job , however , may be convincing skeptic this family be worth form in the first place .
amd announce strategic investment to accelerate cloud server strategy .
on february 29 , 2012 , amd announce a definitive agreement to acquire seamicro , a pioneer in energy - efficient , high - bandwidth microserver .
by acquire seamicro , amd be accelerate we disruptive server strategy , take advantage of a inflection point in the industry drive opportunity in low power , client mobility , emerge market and the cloud / megadata center .
this disruptive move position amd to expand we current server offering and provide we customer with low - power , low - cost , high - bandwidth platform .
with seamicro , amd build upon we processor design and compute expertise with system - level advance in energy efficiency , total cost of ownership and density for customer .
we be excite to have seamicro join amd .
the combination of seamicro ip with amd opteron technology and we focus on execution provide amd differentiate capability to address the evolve need of the server market .
rbc capital market downgrade ati technology to '' sector perform '' from '' outperform '' after advanced micro device announce its intention to buy the canadian graphic chip-maker for $ 5.4 billion on monday .
even though the takeover look fairly value , rbc analyst steve arthur say there be limit upside to the offer unless compete bid be make for atus .
for now , arthur say amd 's takeover deal , which be expect to close in the fourth quarter , effectively offer he one-year price target of $ 21 now .
that price target be set prior to the takeover bid and factored in ati 's gross margin leverage , capital expenditure strength , a competitive product lineup and the launch of microsoft -lrb- nasdaq : msft - news - people -rrb- window ' new operating system , vista , which would be a '' net positive '' for graphics-chip vendor .
without a competitive bid to drive share higher , ati be unlikely to outperform , warrant a '' sector perform '' rating in the analyst 's view .
arthur say a competitive bid be possible but the two most-likely bidder , intel -lrb- nasdaq : intc - news - people -rrb- and nvdidia , face prohibitive anti-trust challenge combine , ati and intel would have 68 % overall market share in pc graphic , while a ati-nvidia partnership would effectively capture 100 % of the discrete graphic market .
other counteroffer could be make by texa instrument -lrb- nyse : txn - news - people -rrb- and broadcom -lrb- nasdaq : brcm - news - people -rrb- , which , accord to arthur , would not so much face anti-trust challenge as they would compatibility challenge .
amd to acquire seamicro : accelerate disruptive server strategy .
seamicro low - power , high - bandwidth microserver solution set the stage for amd '' s disruptive approach to lead fast - grow cloud datum center market .
sunnyvale , calif . -- / 29 / 2012 .
amd -lrb- nyse : amd -rrb- today announce it have sign a definitive agreement to acquire seamicro , a pioneer in energy - efficient , high - bandwidth microserver , for approximately 334 million , of which approximately 281 million will be pay in cash .
through the acquisition of seamicro , amd will be accelerate its strategy to deliver disruptive server technology to its oem customer serve cloud - centric datum center .
with seamicro '' s fabric technology and system - level design capability , amd will be uniquely position to offer industry - lead server building block tune for the fastest - grow workload such as dynamic web content , social networking , search and video .
amd '' s server technology combine with seamicro technology provide customer with a range of processor choice and platform that can help significantly reduce datum center complexity , cost and energy consumption while improve performance .
amd plan to offer the first amd opteron processor - base solution that combine amd and seamicro technology in the second half of 2012 .
the company remain firmly commit to its traditional server business , and will continue to focus and invest in this area .
'' by acquire seamicro , we be accelerate amd '' s transformation into a agile , disruptive innovator capable of stake a data center leadership position , '' say rory read , president and ceo , amd .
'' seamicro be a pioneer in low - power server technology .
the unmatched combination of amd '' s process capability , seamicro '' s system and fabric technology , and we ambidextrous technology approach uniquely position amd with a compelling , differentiate position to attack the fastest grow segment of the server market . '' .
seamicro technology offer substantial advantage in large datum center and cloud environment .
cloud datum center be project to be the fastest grow segment of the server market through 2015 , accord to idc1 .
current system feature seamicro technology typically use one quarter the power and take one sixth the space of traditional server with the same compute performance , yet deliver up to 12 time the bandwidth per core2 .
foremost among seamicro '' s innovation be they supercompute fabric , which connect thousand of processor core , memory , storage and input / output traffic .
seamicro '' s fabric support multiple processor instruction set .
seamicro solution be currently deploy in multiple site across the world .
amd will continue to support all current seamicro customer while accelerate plan to deliver new platform that combine amd and seamicro technology and enable amd '' s oem partner to bring differentiate solution to market .
'' cloud computing have bring a sea change to the datum center - - dramatically alter the economics of compute by change the workload and optimal characteristic of a server , '' say andrew feldman , seamicro ceo , who will become general manager of amd '' be newly create datum center server solution business .
'' seamicro be found to dramatically reduce the power consume by server , while increase compute density and bandwidth .
by become a part of amd , we will have access to new market , resource , technology , and scale that will provide we with the opportunity to work tightly with we oem partner as we fundamentally change the server market . '' .
the acquisition do not change amd '' s 2012 financial guidance and the transaction be expect to be accretive to earnings after 2012 .
amd will fund the cash portion of the acquisition with exist cash reserve .
amd conference call .
amd will hold a conference call for the financial community at 4 : 45 p . m . est today to discuss today '' s announcement .
amd will provide a real - time audio broadcast of the teleconference on the investor relation page of its web site at www . amd . com .
the webcast will be available for 10 day after the conference call .
ati a potent weapon for amd in clash with intel .
the pitched battle for supremacy in the chip-making market reach a critical phase yesterday with advanced micro device -lrb- amd -rrb- in sunnyvale , calif . announce its decision to acquire canadian graphic card manufacturer ati technology -lrb- atus -rrb- .
the imminent purchase of ati , analyst say , be the most vital element in amd 's concerted campaign to dethrone the mighty intel corp .
amd agree to buy markham , ont-based atus for around $ 5.4 billion in cash and stock , the company announce monday .
the acquisition , which be subject to shareholder and regulatory approval , would turn amd into one of the world 's largest provider of graphic chip .
'' you will not see it tomorrow , but the merger will potentially put amd on a more equal footing with intel , '' say michelle warren , a analyst with evan research in toronto .
another canadian analyst note that the merger be likely to bring significant benefit to both company .
amd would round out its graphic process unit portfolio , say eddie chan , lead analyst , mobile and personal computing at research firm idc canada in toronto ati , he say , also blend in well amd 's live ! convergence platform .
'' ati have a strong product portfolio that cover component for such offering as mobile phone , wireless product , digital tv , and high definition tv . '' .
on the flip side , amd allow atus to hitch a ride on the integrate chip bandwagon .
discrete graphic component have be suffer over the year as the market move on to integrated chip such as those sell by intel , say chan .
'' a tie-up with amd allow atus to move towards integrate solution or the so-called system-on-a-chip platform . '' .
the marketing message from ati executive too be all about the mutual benefit ' of the propose acquisition .
adrian hartog , senior vice-president for consumer product at ati , characterize the alliance as a growth opportunity for both company .
it be generally expect that the merged company will harness ati 's strong r and d track record .
in a list release late last year of canada 's top 10 r and d spender , ati technology be in position 5 .
the company spend $ 389.1 million in r and d in 2004 , a increase of 18.3 percent .
the list be release by toronto consulting firm research infosource .
the ati research team have a proven capacity to turn major new product out every 12 to 18 month .
'' bring these two company together will allow we to transcend what we have accomplish as individual business , '' say hector ruiz , chairman and chief executive officer -lrb- ceo -rrb- of amd in a statement .
'' all of we product line will benefit . '' .
earlier , amd reveal plan to build a highly efficient dual-core notebook processor , set for release in the second half of 2007 .
amd enjoy considerable strength in the server and consumer computing industry while ati be consider a leader in the computer gaming arena .
warren say recent year have see these disparate market move closer to each other .
for instance , ati 's shader model 3.0 , which allow more complex shading and more realistic image rendering , be find traction in the enterprise space with company that be heavy computer-aided draft -lrb- cad -rrb- user , include customer in the automotive , aerospace and animation space .
hartog say the purchase of ati by amd will involve ' some change ' but he downplay any potential lay-off from among the company 's more than 3,000 employee .
'' ontario have one of we largest r and d team and that arrangement will continue .
we be not anticipate any immediate lay-off , '' hartog say .
any acquisition raise the issue of employment stability , say warren , but amd would be wise to allow atus to continue operate as it do .
'' there be a strong chance atus will be give a measure of autonomy because it have great strength in its area . '' .
warren say the alliance also '' step up '' ati 's competition with rival nvidia of santa clara , calif. apart from atus , amd also turn to nvidia for graphic component .
'' depend on the contract , it be possible that nvidia 's access to amd chip will be limit , '' say warren .
if that happen , evan research analyst michelle warren say , '' it will open the door for nvidia to search for new option and possibly talk with intel .
however , hartog say there will be no move to constrain nvidia 's supply .
'' nvidia will continue to be amd 's partner .
both ati and amd be commit to open platform system , '' he say .
'' in fact that be what differentiate we to we partner and customer . '' .
amd enter server business with bold acquisition .
02 . 29 . 12 4 : 15 pm .
chip designer and chief intel rival amd have sign a agreement to acquire seamicro , a silicon valley startup that seek to save power and space by build server from hundred of low - power processor .
with the purchase , amd will not only turn itself into a server maker , it will turn itself into a server maker that use chip from intel .
today , seamicro '' s server be build with processor from amd '' s rival , include intel '' s atom mobile processor as well as intel xeon chip .
amd say it will continue to sell and support seamicro server equip with intel chip '' for the foreseeable future . '' .
but it also hope to license seamicro '' s server '' fabric '' technology to other server seller , include big name dell and hp , and it plan to introduce amd opteron chip into seamicro machine sometime in the second half of the year .
seamicro '' s fabric be a way of efficiently connect various piece of server hardware , and the company say it can be use with virtually any processor .
less than a month ago , intel and seamicro hold a joint press event where they predict a bright future together , so it would appear that the amd acquisition come about rather quickly .
but amd '' be lisa su -- the company '' s senior vice president and general manager for its global business unit -- say the chip designer have be eye technology along the line of seamicro '' s for some time .
'' we '' ve be look at the key technology innovation that be go to really disrupt the server market .
we '' ve be look at fabric technology -- externally with a number of company as well as internally , look to develop ourselves -- and we feel that seamicro be really the best option .
it be prove , and it be in system , '' su say on wednesday morning during a briefing with reporter .
'' the complement of we processing capability and seamicro '' s fabric technology give we what we think be a very , very strong -lsb- intellectual property -rsb- portfolio . '' .
amd will pay 334 million for seamicro , include 281 million in cash .
the deal be expect to close in '' a number of week . '' .
base in sunnyvale , california , seamicro be at the forefront of a movement to build server from ultra - low - power processor -- aka '' wimpy core . '' .
the idea be to reduce power by splitting application into small piece that can be spread across a larger number of chip , not unlike the one run you cell phone .
texa startup calxeda offer '' wimpy core '' server equip with chip use the arm instruction set -- a alternative to the x86 instruction set use by intel and amd -- while hp be explore the idea with a research effort it call project moonshot .
but last month , during that press event co - host by intel , seamicro announce that it would also offer server equip with intel xeon chip , which be specifically design for server .
xeon consume more power , but they also offer more speed .
seamicro say that certain software workload be suit to the wimpy core , while other be suit to '' brawny core , '' and this same message be deliver by the likes of dave andersen , the carnegie melon professor who coin the wimpy core name .
whatever processor it use , seamicro say , it can save power and space when you compare its machine to traditional server .
the company have build specialize asic chip load with software that allow the company to build ultra - small motherboard that include little more than processor , memory , and the asic itself -- and then connect hundred of these board .
accord to the company , this technology be '' chip agnostic , '' mean it can relatively easily be use with new chip architecture .
amd and seamicro say that they will '' explore '' the use of seamicro '' s fabric with all sort of processor , both wimpy and brawny .
this may include arm chip .
in recent week , amd have hint that it will eventually license arm technology .
ask if the company will continue to offer ultra - low - power chip along the line of the intel atom , seamicro ceo and co - founder andrew feldman say '' absolutely . '' .
but he decline to point to specific processor architecture .
'' this -lsb- seamicro fabric -rsb- technology can work with larger core and small core .
it can work with x86 and non - x86 .
it can also move ethernet traffic and storage traffic , '' feldman say .
amd chief technology officer mark papermaster then pipe up to point out that amd be intent on use whatever chip technology be need to get a particular job do .
'' if you look at we roadmap , we have a very agile -lsb- system - on - a - chip -rsb- , '' he say .
'' it allow we to be more pushy in bring in we ip . '' .
seamicro currently employ 80 people , and about half of they be engineer .
one of those engineer be founder and chief technology officer gary lauterbach , who be previously a amd fellow and one of five architect who build the core of amd '' s opteron processor .
lauterbach be also a lead chip designer at sun microsystem , and the idea for seamicro first come to he when he and another sun executive get a look at the low - power server that power google '' be search engine in the early part of the last decade .
andrew feldman will become the general manager of amd '' s new '' datum center solution '' business .
accord to su , this business unit will continue to support the current '' roadmap '' for seamicro '' s server .
this mean that the company will sell and service seamicro '' s intel atom and intel xeon system -- though su indicate that the company will eventually drop intel '' s chip .
she say that amd opteron chip will be add to seamicro system '' towards the end of this year . '' .
intel '' s jason waxman -- who head the company '' s general manager of intel '' be high density computing group -- tell wire that amd '' s acquisition of seamicro '' doesn '' t change a whole lot '' for intel .
he say that amd will decide whether to keep sell seamicro server with intel chip , and that intel will continue to reduce the power consumption of both its xeon and atom chip for use inside server .
'' be able to launch the seamicro product with intel xeon silicon be a good testimonial for we .
they think we be the best partner at the time , '' waxman say .
'' they choose we silicon for a reason . '' .
whatever the fate of intel chip in seamicro server , amd say the acquisition be about more than just sell machine .
the idea be also to '' broaden '' amd '' s relationship with server seller such as dell and hp .
presumably , this mean that amd will license seamicro '' s fabric technology to third - party .
'' we have new technology that we can add to we exist opteron roadmap to form something that can really differentiate we in the marketplace , '' su say .
andrew feldman add that seamicro have already have discussion along these line with the likes of dell and hp .
currently , dell resell seamicro server .
that say , the acquisition mean that -- on some level -- amd will be compete with its own customer .
it will be both chip designer and server maker .
but su downplay this notion .
'' we be not compete with we customer .
we have to balance the fact that will continue to support -lsb- seamicro -rsb- product .
but the goal be to proliferate the technology with oem , '' su say , refer to original equipment manufacturer such as dell and hp .
'' what we see be a chance to take we technology to multiple market , with multiple partner , in multiple geography -- in way we couldn '' t do on we own , '' say seamicro ceo and new amd general manager andrew feldman .
'' the opportunity to collaborate with the oem be larger than the opportunity to compete with they . '' .
advanced micro device inc. shake up the personal computer industry by buy ati technology inc. for we $ 5.4-billion yesterday , open up a new front in the battle with intel corp. to control the computer chip market .
the deal , which have be anticipate for over a year , give amd high-end graphic technology and bolster the company 's strategy to overtake intel as the dominant supplier of chip that power personal computer and other device .
as well , intel have be a buyer of ati 's graphic chip and that relationship look to be in jeopardy .
'' this reconfigure the market and put amd in a amazingly new strong position , '' say jon peddie , a independent chip analyst in san francisco .
amd buy sea micro for 334m to get into energy - efficient '' microserver '' .
february 29 , 2012 2 : 27 pm .
there '' be a sea change happen in a segment of the server market dub microserver .
and sea micro have be at the center of it , disrupt the market with energy efficient server that use lightweight processor from intel .
advanced micro device be acquire sea micro today for 334 million , include 281 million in cash .
sea micro have be disruptive because it can pack a lot of compute power in a server rack that be about a sixth of the usual size .
its server use a quarter of the usual electricity and cost a lot less .
the server use intel '' s atom microprocessor , which be target at energy efficient device such as tablet computer .
but amd '' be move could shake thing up for intel , which presumably will lose some of its business .
the advantage of sunnyvale , calif . - base seamicro '' s small and power - efficient computer be that enterprise can now shove a lot more computing power into a give amount of space and use a lot less electrical power , thereby cut electricity bill dramatically .
that matter because electricity cost be the biggest part of the budget for operate datum center .
andrew feldman , chief executive of sea micro have say in past interview that seamicro have become the fastest - grow system company in silicon valley history .
seamicro '' s customer include france telecom , skype , roger wireless , mozilla , eharmony , and china netcom bb .
hundred of million of internet user traverse seamicro '' s hardware daily .
as we '' ve describe in earlier story , intel have be improve its server microprocessor by make they more power efficient .
but the microprocessor only account for a third of the power consumption in a server .
seamicro '' s innovation lie in how it attack the remain two - third of the power consumption problem .
it do so by combine a lot of the extraneous chip into a single , more - efficient custom chip , feldman say .
in its earliest system , seamicro put 384 intel atom dual - core processor -lrb- for a total of 64 - bit 768 core -rrb- in a 10 - rack system , which be just 17 . 5 inch high .
the newer sm10000 - 64hd be a 20 percent improvement over seamicro '' s previous server line and a 150 percent improvement on its compute density record , or the amount of compute power in a give space .
that single machine could replace rival system with a bunch of equipment : 60 traditional server , four rack switch , four terminal server , and a load balancing server .
it use a quarter of the power and a sixth of the space .
seamicro can put a entire server on a motherboard that be 5 inch by 11 inch .
since the hardware be intel - base , customer don '' t have to change they software at all .
seamicro be found in 2007 and be back with 60 million in funding by khosla venture , draper fisher jurvetson , crosslink capital , and a number of strategic investor .
it also win grant from the u . s . departement of energy -lrb- 9 . 3 million -rrb- and the state of california -lrb- 250 , 000 -rrb- .
seamicro have 80 employee .
most recently , it raise 20 million .
seamicro also attack the power consumption problem with a very clever trick know as virtualization .
today , virtualization be frequently use with server .
it be a layer of software that rest between a application and the server that it run on .
if a application need only two server , the virtualization software find two available server to run the application .
if the application get busy and need 10 server , the virtualization software find 10 available server to do the job .
the application be no longer tie to specific server ; the virtualization software free up the overall system and get more use out of the available server .
seamicro do the same thing , but it apply the concept of virtualization to the inside of a server .
feldman design custom chip that could take the task that be handle by everything beyond the intel microprocessor and its chip set .
the custom chip virtualize all of those other component so that it find the resource when it '' s need .
it essentially trick the microprocessor into think that the rest of the system be there when it need it .
seamicro virtualize a lot of function that take up a lot of space inside each server in a rack .
it also do the same with function such as storage , networking , server management , and load balancing .
full tell , seamicro eliminate 90 percent of the component from a system board .
seamicro call this cpu / io virtualization .
with it , seamicro shrink the size of the system board from a pizza box to the size of a credit card .
by boil down the rest of the system into a couple of chip , seamicro can get rid of a lot of the component in a system , thereby get rid of space , cost , and power consumption .
the buy should also expand amd 's manufacturing capability , as well as integrate microprocessor and graphic engine in a single chip .
the acquisition be set to be wrap up by year 's end .
advanced micro device -lrb- nyse : amd -rrb- announce the largest acquisition in its history monday , pay about $ 5.4 billion to acquire graphic chip specialist ati technology .
the acquisition will let amd expand its position in the commercial desktop and mobile computing market , two area where the company have not have much success .
in addition to accelerate the company 's x86 processor market share battle with intel -lrb- nsdq : intc -rrb- , the acquisition will expand amd 's access to manufacture capacity and will lead to product that will integrate both microprocessor and graphic engine in a single chip in future release .
the startup manage large-scale web infrastructure to prevent downtime related to configuration change march madness 2008 be carry in full on the internet , on demand thanks to the technology innovation of cb sport and cb interactive gm 's tech leader talk about consolidate , re-engineering , upgrade the company 's application infrastructure .
'' together we intend to create a processing powerhouse , '' say hector ruiz , chairman and chief executive of amd , during a teleconference to announce the deal .
'' we be confident the company will integrate well together .
we believe that as technology advance , integration be not only inevitable , but also advantageous . '' .
begin next year , the company will market '' customer-centric platform '' use amd and ati technology that will include all exist product offering .
begin in 2008 , amd plan to introduce platform that integrate general purpose processor and graphic engine to meet specific media , datum , and graphic requirement , say dave orton , president and chief executive of ati .
bob rivet , cfo of amd , say the acquisition be expect to be complete by year 's end .
the purchase be a combination of $ 4.2 billion in cash and 57 million share of amd stock .
amd 's current area of greatest strength be provide processor that address the server and consumer desktop market , rivet say .
bring ati 's graphic technology in-house will allow amd to better address the commercial desktop and laptop market , he say , two area where amd currently have a smaller presence .
while overall sale of x86 processor currently total about $ 30 billion annually , amd be primarily address only a segment that total about $ 13 billion , rivet say .
by expand more into commercial desktop and laptop market , amd will be able to grow its overall x86 market share .
rivet say that each percentage of market share gain equate to about $ 300 million in revenue .
ruiz say the acquisition '' open up a broad array of option for expand we capacity infrastructure '' by provide amd with a expand relationship with some of the largest semiconductor foundry in the world .
currently amd utilize internal manufacturing capacity , as well as capacity from chartered semiconductor manufacturing .
ati , however , have manufacture relationship with two of the other largest foundry in the world , taiwan semiconductor manufacturing and unite microelectronics .
the acquisition of ati by amd will now provide computer maker and customer with another choice for integrate microprocessor and graphic processor platform , say bruce shaw , director of worldwide commercial marketing for amd .
currently only intel offer a integrated platform .
although amd will be provide integrate platform , it will continue to support the use of third-party graphic product , such as those from nvidia , in combination with its processor , shaw say .
amd have no plan to reduce the ati product line or back away from market it address , such as cell phone , where amd have little or no presence , he say .
ati be expect to continue to operate out of its headquarters in markham , ontario , and layoff be expect to be minimal .
amd buy seamicro , enter server hardware business .
feb 29 , 2012 2 : 31 pm .
advanced micro device announce wednesday it be buy low - power server vendor seamicro , a surprise move that put amd in the system business and disrupt intel by acquire one of its close partner .
amd will pay 334 million in cash and stock for seamicro , a 80 - employee silicon valley startup that have gain attention for build highly dense and power - efficient server for use in large - scale cloud computing environment .
seamicro ceo andrew feldman will become general manager of a new division at amd , the datum center server solution group .
amd plan to sell seamicro - branded server directly to customer , but it buy the company primarily for its technology , which it hope to license to other server vendor to build they own low - power system , amd official say .
seamicro have a proven technology that have be benchmark in key customer site to show improvement in power consumption and total cost of ownership .
that -lsb- intellectual property -rsb- be very attractive to we , '' say lisa su , senior vice president and general manager for amd product division .
the move will be see as a setback to intel , which have build a tight partnership with seamicro .
all the server seamicro currently sell be base on low - power intel atom processor , and just a few week ago the company hold a joint press conference where intel sing seamicro praise .
a intel spokesman decline to comment on the acquisition wednesday before it be officially announce .
amd will continue to sell seamicro server base on intel processor for the foreseeable future , '' lu say .
by the end of this year , she say , it will release the first seamicro server base on amd opteron processor .
feldman would say when seamicro and amd begin talk but say the deal come about unbelievably quickly . '' .
he say there be other suitor for the company , include non - chip vendor .
seamicro develop a interconnect technology that allow it to eliminate all but three of the chip on a standard server motherboard .
that allow it to develop server that it claim consume one quarter the power and one sixth the space of standard x86 server .
its product be gear primarily towards high volume , web - base transaction workload that not require the computing muscle of a traditional xeon or opteron server processor .
mozilla use seamicro server , for instance , to deliver software update to user .
it not clear which amd processor seamicro will use as a alternative to intel atom chip , though amd have several low - power offering and plan to release a new , low - power chip for tablet , code name hondo , later this year .
however , seamicro have say its technology can also benefit server base on more powerful processor .
a server base on a opteron chip would be efficient for run mysql and mondodb database workload , feldman say , as well as php application use by many online service .
it could also be use to build efficient supercomputer , he say .
it a new direction for amd , one it hope will allow it to expand its server business and capitalize on the fast - grow cloud computing market .
spending on server for such scale out datum center be expect to grow 33 percent a year on average for the next several year , amd say , faster than the server market as a whole .
the move put amd in the difficult position of compete with some of its customer , though lu insist that will not be a problem .
the scale of seamicro business today be much smaller than that of a hewlett - packard or a dell , she say , and amd think the value of seamicro technology to server vendor will outweigh they competitive concern .
amd server business could use a lift , note dean mccarron , principal analyst at mercury research .
they be obviously experience a decline and this would be a way to expand the market for they processor , '' he say .
amd be pay 281 million in cash for seamicro and the remainder in stock , lu say .
it expect to close the deal in march .
graphic talk about nvidia .
address a deficiency of its own and further up the competitive tension between it and chief rival intel -lrb- nasdaq : intc - news - people -rrb- , advance micro device -lrb- nyse : amd - news - people -rrb- intend to acquire graphic chipmaker ati technology -lrb- nasdaq : atyt - news - people -rrb- in a $ 5.4 billion deal .
be intel below $ 19 too cheap to last or still above what the chipmaker 's worth ?
the question for many be where that leave nvidia corp. -lrb- nasdaq : nvda - news - people -rrb- , now the sole independent graphic chip maker address each of the computing , mobile communication and display market .
we think not too much worse off than before the deal , and believe share in the company remain a compelling way to play growth in gaming and media-oriented computing .
we view of the advanced micro device / atus technology deal be that it be the last major move amd need to make to match intel 's breadth in the processor market -lrb- now that intel have shed its communication processor business -rrb- .
intel have have for some time the ability to integrate graphic capability into its offering for pc maker , resource for which amd have have to rely on other folk , include both ati and nvidia .
the amd/ati combination now trump intel 's strategy by add the capacity to package higher-end chip for gaming and complex graphic manipulation .
we be not sure that be a huge game-changer for atus in its ongoing match against nvidia , though .
we doubt amd would shut out nvidia 's ability to integrate with its core processor , as any such move might lessen the attractiveness of amd 's core product to that crowd .
amd acquisition of seamicro put intel on the defensive .
mar 2 , 2012 12 : 30 pm .
intel suffer a setback in the server market this week with the news that its former partner , seamicro , be be acquire by amd .
but the world top chip maker say it be internally develop technology to remain competitive in the dense server market .
intel be develop integrate fabric to boost i / o and high - performance networking and storage in server , say jason waxman , general manager of intel datum center business unit , in a interview .
the technology be be develop as the company try to boost its presence in the market for dense server use in cloud computing deployment in datum center .
amd be pay 334 million for seamicro , which until now be in a tight partnership with intel to develop dense server .
amd plan to sell seamicro - branded server and license to customer its fabric technology , which virtualize i / o and tie together storage and networking .
the deal be expect to close in march .
seamicro provide amd a instant presence in the nascent but fast - grow dense server market , and intel will now be play catch - up , analyst say .
seamicro currently sell server only with intel processor , and it be likely that amd will swap those with its own chip .
intel say it will continue to provide processor for seamicro server , depend on the requirement .
amd purchase of seamicro be a unexpected but smart move , say nathan brookwood , principal analyst at insight 64 .
the dense server market be grow as company look to curb electricity cost by deploy low - power server to respond to web and database query .
but amd prize in the acquisition be seamicro specialize fabric , brookwood say .
seamicro dense server have many credit - card - size motherboard that be connect by the fabric , which reduce the need for extra storage and network controller .
it could take intel year to develop technology that be competitive with seamicro fabric , brookwood say .
and intel will need to prove its technology be reliable before it be widely adopt .
intel have all the piece and all the technology and the smart people to put this together .
but it take time , '' brookwood say .
the seamicro deal give amd a technological head start , but it will also intensify intel focus on develop related technology , say dean mccarron , principal analyst at mercury research .
intel waxman do specify how intel would build the fabric and i / o technology , but say the company would utilize asset from recently acquire network company .
in july it acquire fulcrum microsystem , which make ethernet switch , and last month it purchase infiniband asset from qlogic , which provide high - performance fabric technology for server .
intel also will remain competitive through new processor , memory and system management technology .
but by the time intel fabric technology mature , analyst say that amd could be far ahead in the integration of seamicro technology inside chip .
amd in the future will allow implementation of third - party intellectual property inside chip , and by 2013 or 2014 , seamicro ip could be inside opteron server chip .
currently seamicro asic -lrb- application - specific integrate circuit -rrb- control the fabric be place on the motherboard alongside the processor and memory .
when integrate inside a chip , it could be similar to calxeda energycore chip , which will be use by hewlett - packard in its upcome arm server .
the calxeda chip include cache , a 80 - gigabit fabric switch and a management engine for power optimization .
amd will be able to license the fabric technology to work on arm processor , which could also put pressure on intel , analyst say .
arm processor be mainly find in smartphone and tablet , but there be grow interest in build power - efficient arm server .
amd will be able to differentiate its offering from intel by offer seamicro technology with either arm or x86 processor as early as 2013 , say matt eastwood , group vice president for enterprise platform research at idc .
amd currently offer only x86 chip , but the company chief technology officer , mark papermaster , have not rule out implement arm ip on its future chip .
but intel waxman say the amd - seamicro deal do not change intel dense server strategy , and the chip maker will continue to work with customer like dell and tyan .
a part of we strategy be to provide a full portfolio of ingredient , '' waxman say .
have get the right asset in we arsenal . '' .
taiwan semiconductor manufacturing co. -lrb- tsmc -rrb- share rise yesterday after two of the world 's largest chipmaker say they merger would not create a negative impact on the hsinchu-based foundry , dispel investor fear .
tsmc stock trade on the taiex close at nt $ 53.8 yesterday , up nt $ 0.9 from the previous trading day .
yesterday advance micro device inc. -lrb- amd -rrb- , a lead global cpu maker , announce its purchase of canada-based graphic chip maker ati technology inc. in a we $ 5.4 billion deal that many say would help amd compete more effectively with intel corp. , its largest-in-the-world rival .
analyst also say the merger would cause a reshuffle in the global pc industry , affect chip foundry - include tsmc - that manufacture intel-based graphic chip for atus on a original equipment manufacture basis .
ati , the largest maker of computer graphic chip for notebook computer , outsource the manufacturing of its chip , while advanced micro have facility to produce some of its own processor .
in a news conference announce the merger hold in taipei yesterday , henri richard , executive vice president of amd , urge investor not to worry as ati 's relation with tsmc and its rival unite microelectronics corp. would not change .
he say ati and its supplier use the so-called cmo manufacture technology , which be different from what amd use .
umc yesterday close at nt $ 18 , up nt $ 0.05 .
some analyst however express the concern that the merger would impact tsmc in the long run , as loss of ati order would cause tsmc to see its capacity utilization lower by 20 to 30 percent .
tsmc , the world 's largest maker of customize chip , say itself monday night it will continue to manufacture for atus .
'' as part of amd , ati 's business will continue to operate in a fabless business model and maintain its strong foundry partnership with tsmc , '' the company say in a e-mail statement .
the company say it have hold discussion with ati , without provide detail .
the merger , meanwhile , be also expect to create a impact on taiwan 's chipset manufacturer .
via , a manufacturer of amd-based chipset , yesterday see its share drop nt $ 0.65 to close at nt $ 24.05 .
altogether the taiex rise 31.36 point yesterday to close at 6,390.99 .
amd to acquire microserver startup seamicro for 334 million .
february 29 , 2012 04 : 23pm est .
advanced micro device on wednesday announce a deal to acquire startup seamicro , a maker of microserver and datum center fabric technology , for 334 million .
seamicro chief executive andrew feldman will become general manager of a newly form amd business unit call datum center server solution .
seamicro lead - edge fabric technology together with amd opteron processor point the way to a compelling roadmap for the cloud datum center market , '' say lisa su , senior vice president and general manager of amd global business unit , in a discussion with reporter at the chip maker sunnyvale , calif . headquarters ahead of the announcement .
the company will continue to honor seamicro exist relationship with its own partner , su say , and will sell seamicro - branded server , which currently use server chip make by amd archrival intel .
feldman , who also speak with media wednesday , say seamicro technology be processor - agnostic , '' so incorporate amd opteron processor and even non - x86 instruction set and architecture in future product would be easy to do .
amd representative say they believe seamicro unique supercompute fabric be a major innovation in datum center technology , characterize the platform as a new server building block which would increasingly make its way into the grow cloud infrastructure space .
when you talk about the ability to tie together large amount of processor core , hundred and even thousand , within a server system , there be a lot of choice out there -lsb- in term of competitor -rsb- , particularly if you want to bring ethernet over it and disk traffic over it , there just we , '' say feldman , describe he company technology .
nobody else can move both ethernet and disk traffic , because they have very different requirement , '' he add .
feldman say seamicro suitor be numerous in the day lead up to the amd acquisition and include more than just semiconductor company .
in recent month , intel and other company have speak highly of the innovative startup .
we be fortunate that when we begin speak with amd , they have far and away the most sophisticated view on fabric , '' he say .
they have already do extensive work on what a next - generation fabric could look like .
they be kindred spirit and when you find that , you can move very quickly .
and they really move with dazzling speed . '' .
amd president and chief executive rory read also address the deal in a statement , say that the seamicro acquisition would accelerate amd transformation into a agile , disruptive innovator capable of stake a data center leadership position . '' .
amd 's ati acquisition will not affect india operation .
india will figure prominently in amd 's $ 5.4 acquisition of ati technology , as both the semiconductor giant have they operation in the country .
amd have its design centre in bangalore while ati 's r and d unit be located in hyderabad .
though the exact contour of the merger and its implication in india be not know , both be expect to maintain they exist portfolio of operation as both concentrate on different segment .
'' the combination will create a processing powerhouse by bring amd 's technology leadership in microprocessor together with ati 's strength in graphic , chipset and consumer electronics , '' amd say in a statement .
ati technology india md dasaradha r gude tell et that the combination would drive growth and the indian operation would also be expand .
'' we work be complementary to each other and do not overlap .
with this merger , we would also be able to address bigger market , '' he say .
the amd statement say , '' we can not speculate on the implication of the merger for another 90-120 day , till the time integration be complete . '' .
amd acquire seamicro -- big bet on architectural shift for server .
summary : rich fichera look at the risk and potential reward of amd recent acquisition of innovative server startup seamicro .
march 1 , 2012 - - 07 : 58 gmt -lrb- 23 : 58 pst -rrb- .
at its recent financial analyst day , amd indicate that intend to differentiate itself by create product that be advantage in niche market , with specific mention , among other segment , of server , and to generally shake up the trench warfare that have have it on the lose side of its lifelong battle with intel -lrb- my interpretation , not amd management '' s word -rrb- .
today , at least for the server side of the business they make a move that can potentially offer they visibility and differentiation by acquire innovative server startup seamicro .
seamicro have attract we attention since its appearance -lrb- blog post 1 , blog post 2 -rrb- , with its innovative architecture that dramatically reduce power and improve density by share component like i / o adapter , disk and even bio over a proprietary fabric .
the irony here be that seamicro come to market with a tight alignment with intel , who at one pint even introduce a special dual - core packaging of they atom cpu to allow seamicro improve its density and power efficiency .
most recently seamicro and intel announce a new model which feature xeon cpus to address the more mainstream segment that be not a for seamicro '' s original atom - base offering .
so what do amd hope to gain from this acquisition ?
the strategic goal be a differentiate server architecture into which they can insert amd silicon and ip .
the seamicro architecture share many of the characteristic of the calxeda / hp redstone architecture , and can potentially allow amd to produce reference architecture for its system partner to leverage that give they significant density advantage over any conventional x86 server offering .
since this architecture be initially target at dense computing environment such as those find in web 2 . 0 , cloud service provider and similar workload , as well as potentially at conventional hpc , the prospects for amd be interesting .
long - term success will hinge on several interlock factor .
1 . how much will amd focus this offering on the ultra - dense space that seamicro start address versus try to also take a bite out of the enterprise space ?
2 . how aggressively will they scale it ?
the seamicro fabric do not extend beyond the single enclosure boundary , but that appear to be a implementation decision , not a fundamental architectural issue .
my personal belief be that fabric - base server be the wave of the future , with seamicro calxeda / hp serve as very significant guideline for future development .
scale the fabric first for management and then for actual datum traffic for shared i / o and eventually for coherent memory operation if need be a natural progression .
3 . what other ip will amd add ?
amd have a interesting portfolio of gpu technology as well as cpu , and the incorporation of gpu technology could provide further differentiation in niche market .
amd have a choice of way to monetize this ip , from sell system base on its own processor -lrb- possibly as early as late this year -rrb- to provide reference design and / or license the architecture or sell component like the fabric asic .
4 . will they also support arm processor ?
if amd become the source of licensed ip for vendor want to chase hp in ultra - dense server , they can also make money by license they technology and selling component for non - x86 architecture .
5 . what will intel do ?
at least one of intel '' s partner , hp , already have a fabric - base dense server design that can support x86 .
will intel develop a similar reference architecture in the hope that they major system partner will adopt it ?
all in all , many way this could play out , but a bold move and one that may serve to trigger a rapid change in the type of server available to user over the next 24 month .
3 / 27 / 2012 @ 10 : 05am .
amd complete seamicro acquisition head to 9 .
amd have complete its acquisition of seamicro as part of its strategy to regain lose server market share from intel and better position itself against future competition from arm - base player such as nvidia .
we previously write on how amd can benefit from this acquisition -lrb- see amd pick up seamicro to strengthen server market offering -rrb- .
here we take a brief look at the price that amd pay for seamicro , and what this imply about its growth expectation .
amd shell out 334 million for the acquisition of seamicro .
since seamicro '' s revenue or other financial be not disclose , it become difficult to gauge whether the price pay be cheap or steep .
however , base on certain assumption , it be possible to understand the range of amd '' be growth expectation from seamicro .
for the purpose of calculation , we assume that seamicro operate at ebitda margin of close to 25 and apply similar corporate expense -lrb- as % of revenue -rrb- include tax , capital expenditure and other that we apply for amd .
if we assume seamicro '' s revenue for 2012 will be somewhere around 50 million , it imply that amd expect seamicro '' s revenue to grow at a average annual rate of 43 to 44 over the course of we forecast period , which extend till 2018 .
these revenue include both seamicro '' be revenue as well as incremental benefit in server - related revenue from the acquisition .
on the other hand , if we assume seamicro '' s revenue for 2012 to be of the order of 150 million , it imply that amd '' be growth expectation for seamicro and related incremental server revenue stand at somewhere around 16 to 17 .
accord to amd '' be own calculation , it have pay a handsome price for the acquisition .
we price estimate for amd stand at 9 . 21 , imply a premium of little under 15 to the market price .
hp to acquire datum center consultant .
on november 13 , 2007 .
electronics manufacturer hewlett - packard -lrb- hp . com -rrb- announce on tuesday that it have sign a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facility -lrb- eypmcf . com -rrb- , a consult company that specialize in strategic technology planning , design and operation support for large - scale datum center .
although no financial term of the transaction be disclose , it be expect to be complete within hp '' s first fiscal quarter .
by acquire eyp mcf , hp will be able to help customer to better transform they datum center , optimize energy efficiency and position they for future business growth , say the company .
headquarter in new york , eyp mcf have approximately 350 employee with 13 office in the we and the uk .
the firm provide mission - critical service to enterprise around the world in business sector include financial service , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state and county government agency .
hp say that eyp mcf '' s capability , particularly its expertise in energy - efficient operation , complement hp '' s extensive datum center service and cost - save power and cool solution , such as dynamic smart cooling .
'' the datum center be the foundation of it for enterprise , a essential building block for drive business growth and adapt to change business objective , '' say john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp service .
'' acquire eyp mission critical facility boost hp '' s ability to help customer transform they datum center and build dynamic computing environment from the ground up . '' .
hewlett - packard make another acquisition , chase ibm .
post nov 14th 2007 12 : 41pm .
hewlett - packard corp . -lrb- nyse : hpq -rrb- have open up its checkbook once again .
this time , the world largest tech company by sale announce that it will be buy eyp mission critical facility inc .
that company , which provide datum center consulting service , will become a division of hp for a undisclosed sum , accord to source .
be this a move to compete more headily with tech giant ibm corp . -lrb- nyse : ibm -rrb- ?
it could certainly be see that way .
hp grow presence in provide datum center service and contract consulting be the core of ibm business model these day , now that the latter be out of the hardware business .
eyp provide design , technology planning and support for large datum center - - the kind that run a large u . s . bank , credit card operation or manufacturing business .
this be right in ibm territory , and the move should put hp in a more competitive position to challenge ibm as a premier provider of compute service consult .
do hp mark hurd want to grow the company he lead into the biggest computing hardware and service manufacture company the world have ever see ?
in a word , yes .
november 15 , 2007 , 7 : 40 be .
hewlett - packard engineer deal for eyp .
hewlett - packard agree to buy eyp mission critical facility , a datum center engineering firm , for a undisclosed sum in a deal that will provide a exit for ta associate .
the boston private equity firm invest 57 . 5 million in eyp mission critical in 2001 .
the target '' s official say at the time its post - money valuation be about 120 million .
hp mark hurd : thought on consolidation .
summary : during he keynote at oracle openworld , hp ceo mark hurd give he view on market consolidation .
it a appropriate setting give oracle have make 41 acquisition in 45 month total .
november 12 , 2007 - - 18 : 19 gmt -lrb- 10 : 19 pst -rrb- .
during he keynote at oracle openworld , hp ceo mark hurd give he view on market consolidation .
it a appropriate setting give oracle have make 41 acquisition in 45 month total .
hp be no slouch at acquisition in its post - compaq era , with more than 20 in the last few year , include mercury for 4 . 5 billion for and most recently opsware for 1 . 6 billion .
today , hp announce a small acquisition , eyp mission critical facility , a datacenter consulting service with 350 employee , while oracle take a day off from its pursuit , which recently include bea .
hurd see continue industry consolidation and vertical integration go forward , which be no surprise .
lately , some mid - size company be buy out by private equity firm , and the larger company be still on the hunt .
today , ibm take out cogno for 5 billion .
but he seem to suggest that the market be shape up for some very large scale transaction in the next few year .
in the end , math win .
a handful of player have in excess of 100 billion in cash revenue .
will see more consolidation , not less .
at the same time , we be all get a push from a it perspective to do more standardization and to have fewer supplier , '' hurd say .
over time , fewer supplier mean move from the large buy the small - and medium - size to the large munch on the large , more merger of near equal , carve up the market into fewer fiefdom within the complex bound of global regulatory approval .
it could happen in two or three year if the right alignment of player occur , '' he add .
hurd do elaborate on the right alignment of player , '' and make a point of say that he be make a prediction .
he explain that company with lot of cash can pay dividend to shareholder , buy back stock or make acquisition .
you have to measure the value of the three choice , and in many case potential m activity will rise to the top . '' .
you can figure it out as well as i can , '' hurd tell the rapt openworld crowd .
the number not mislead you . '' .
hurd be well know for he acumen with the number , but give no further insight .
follow the trajectory of the number for a moment , it not that far fetch to see hp and oracle in a consolidation supernova if the planet align in a certain way .
or , how about sap and ibm , or some other combination .
or cisco and hp .
or microsoft and ? ? ?
take you pick .
it just ungoverned speculation , but consolidation in mature market tend toward singularity .
of course , that could be the beginning of the end for those long established brand , as google or a company no one have hear of rear its head and completely change the rule of the game .
nov 13 , 2007 , 1 : 17pm est .
hp will buy eyp mission critical facility .
hp of palo alto , calif . , say it have agree to acquire eyp mission critical facility inc . , a consult company specialize in strategic technology planning , design and operation support for large datum center .
financial term be not disclose .
headquarter in new york city , eyp mcf have approximately 350 employee with 13 office in the united state and the unite kingdom .
its albany office , at 54 state st . , have total capital region engineering billing of 7 . 2 million in 2006 , accord to the business review latest list of engineering firm .
twenty of the office 40 employee be engineer .
hp say eyp mcf expertise in energy - efficient operation be a attractive complement to hp datum center service and its power and cooling product and service . .
peter gross , ceo of eyp mcf , say worldwide datum - center requirement be grow rapidly .
significant increase in power consumption be fuel demand for greater energy - efficiency , he say , which eyp mcf and hp will incorporate in the planning and design of datum center .
hp expect the transaction to be complete during hp first fiscal quarter , which will end jan . 31 , 2008 .
hewlett - packard to buy consult firm eyp mission critical facility news .
15 november 2007 .
technology product and service company hewlett - packard say on monday 12 november that it have agree to buy datum centre consult company eyp mission critical facility for a undisclosed sum .
the new york - base eyp specialise in technology planning , design and operation support for large datum centre .
it have about 350 employee with office in the we and the uk .
its customer be in the financial service , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and health care sector , as well as the government .
hp say the acquisition will boost its ability to help client improve they datum centre and build new computing environment .
the deal be expect to close in january 2008 .
can ed remain vendor-neutral under hp s thumb ?
will ed remain open-minded about obtain product and service from other vendor ?
industry analyst contact by eweek generally say they believe that hewlett-packard 's forthcoming $ 13.9 billion acquisition of electronic datum system ? announce officially on may 13 be a good move for both company , although there will be the usual integration snafus over vendor neutrality issue , business line , culture shock and layoff .
analyst have also say it be a good move overall for customer and potential customer , because the combined company will offer they a greater palette of product and service from which to choose .
a combined hp-ed will certainly put a new kind of pressure on it service leader ibm .
ibm 's $ 54 billion-per-year global service arm-by far the largest in the world-will start to feel the heat from the combined hp-eds entity , which will start out at a net worth of $ 38 billion per year .
for high-end enterprise it service before this merger , the market consist of ibm and everybody else .
it swiss army knife be all can opener .
the biggest unanswered question on people 's mind involve vendor neutrality for ed and its current customer .
ed for year be a sort of it swiss army knife in that it use whatever product and service from other vendor be need to complete its job correctly and within budget constraint .
with its impending new ownership by one of those key vendor , that picture may change .
'' we do not know what will happen with ed ' vendor neutrality , '' rick sturm , founder and president of enterprise management associate , tell eweek .
overall , my take be that this transaction sound great in theory , but there many potential pitfall .
this be one of they .
for example , ed have largely standardized on management software from can .
will they migrate to hp software now ?
that would take a long time and a lot of money , '' sturm say .
'' on the other hand , it do not make sense to help support a competitor with license and maintenance fee .
that be just one small point regard neutrality . '' .
ed , in fact , have a large current contract with can for network and system management in direct competition to hp 's openview .
can have no immediate comment may 13 .
at least initially , sturm say , there will be little noticeable impact on customer from the deal .
'' there will probably be some service impact once the organization truly merge and consolidate resource , '' he say .
'' -lsb- hp cio -rsb- randy mott have be drive datum center consolidation and standardization .
i expect that effort will be renew with ed .
disruption be inevitable with such migration . '' .
hp acquire eyp mission critical facility .
november 12th , 2007 .
hp have sign a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facility inc . -lrb- eyp mcf -rrb- , one of the lead datum center design and engineering firm .
hp say the acquisition will help its customer equip they datum center for improve energy efficiency and high - density environment .
financial term of the transaction be not disclose .
eyp mcf be headquarter in new york and have approximately 350 employee with 13 office in the united state and the u . k .
the company have design hundred of technology - intensive mission critical facility .
eyp mcf '' s expertise in green datum center design and energy efficiency be a driver in the deal , as it align with hp '' s extensive power and cool solution , such as dynamic smart cooling .
'' the datum center be the foundation of it for enterprise , a essential building block for drive business growth and adapt to change business objective , '' say john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp service .
'' acquire eyp mission critical facility boost hp '' s ability to help customer transform they datum center and build dynamic computing environment from the ground up . '' .
'' worldwide datum center requirement be rapidly grow , with significant year - over - year increase in power consumption , which be fuel demand for energy - efficient power and cooling strategy , '' say peter gross , chief executive officer of eyp mcf .
'' hp and eyp mission critical facility will drive innovation by integrate it infrastructure into the planning and design of the datum center , enable the customer '' s whole organization to be more energy efficient and adaptive . '' .
eyp staff be familiar to many in the industry for they presentation at conference .
gross have speak often on the advantage of dc power distribution in datum center , while richard sawyer have give well - receive presentation on manage risk from the emergency power off -lrb- epo -rrb- button .
the deal be subject to certain closing condition and be expect to be complete within hp '' s first fiscal quarter .
hewlett-packard be negotiate to buy technology service provider electronic datum system in a deal that could help the world 's largest personal computer maker snap up more datum management and consult contract .
palo alto-based hp and plano , texas-based ed confirm the talk yesterday shortly after the wall street journal report a deal could be reach as early as today .
cite unnamed people familiar with the matter , the journal say hp will pay $ 12 billion to $ 13 billion - a price that translate to $ 24 to $ 26 per share .
the company decline to comment beyond they confirmation of the talk .
ed share soar $ 5.27 , or nearly 28 percent , to finish yesterday at $ 24.13 .
hp share drop $ 2.49 , more than 5 percent , to close at $ 46.64 as investor fret over the deal 's logistics .
hp end january with nearly $ 10 billion in cash .
with a market value of about $ 115 billion , hp could easily use its own stock to finance the purchase .
like many corporate marriage , bring together hp and ed could trigger cultural clash that ruin the union , say amr research analyst dana stiffler .
'' palo alto versus plano wrangling will destroy any short-medium-term benefit unless there be a strong integration road map , '' she predict .
if the deal be complete , it would be hp 's biggest acquisition since it buy compaq computer corp. for $ 19 billion in 2002 .
hp have be try to expand its technology consulting and datum management business for year , hope to challenge rival ibm 's leadership in the lucrative field .
in 2000 , hp attempt to buy pricewaterhousecooper ' consulting division before those discussion unravel .
ibm wind up buy pricewaterhousecooper ' consulting arm instead .
the demand for technology consulting and customer support service have steadily grow during the past two decade as the automation of corporate america and the rise of the internet prompt more business to hire outside help to help ensure all the computer software and hardware run smoothly .
ibm 's technology service division bring in revenue of $ 54 billion last year , account for half of the company 's total sale .
combine , ed and hp 's technology service division have about $ 39 billion in revenue last year .
acquire ed also could yield more government work for hp , which have about $ 500 million in prime federal contract in fiscal 2007 .
ed be far better connect , with deal worth about $ 2.5 billion - put it among the top 10 among government technology contractor .
combine , hp and ed still would lag significantly behind government contractor such as lockheed martin corp. and boe company .
ed earn $ 716 million on $ 22.1 billion in revenue last year .
the texa company have be link with possible deal previously , include a report interest by deutsche telekom late last year and dell before that .
none of the company ever confirm report that they be talk .
former ibm salesman h. ross perot leave ibm to start ed in 1962 and practically invent the business of run other company ' computer system , now call information-technology or it service .
perot sell ed to general motor for $ 2.5 billion in 1984 and eventually become so disillusioned with how that deal work out that he sell he remain ed share to the carmaker so he could start a rival service bear he name .
gm spin off ed as a independent company in 1996 and remain its largest customer .
ed be ride high at the start of the decade , despite the dot-com bubble 's bursting .
but in late 2002 , earnings shortfall lead to investor lawsuit , a security and exchange commission investigation , the ouster of the chief executive and a sharp drop in the stock price .
the company lose $ 1.7 billion in 2003 , but it gradually right itself under ceo michael jordan , a retired cb and westinghouse ceo who be hire to lead a turnaround .
jordan fix some money-losing contract , include a multibillion-dollar deal to build a communication network for the navy and marine corps , and begin cut cost by send thousand of job to low-cost country such as india .
hp to expand datum center service with acquisition of global consult company eyp mission critical facility .
nov . 12 , 2007 .
hp today announce that it have sign a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facility inc . -lrb- eyp mcf -rrb- , a consult company specialize in strategic technology planning , design and operation support for large - scale datum center .
by acquire eyp mcf , hp will be better able to help customer to transform they datum center , optimize energy efficiency and position they for future business growth .
financial term of the transaction be not disclose .
headquarter in new york , eyp mcf have approximately 350 employee with 13 office in the united state and the u . k .
the firm provide mission - critical service to enterprise around the world in business sector include financial service , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state and county government agency .
from datum center and command and control center , to trade floor and supercompute site , eyp mcf have design hundred of technology - intensive , high - performance facility where monitoring , operational and energy efficiency be top - priority business requirement .
eyp mcf '' s capability -- particularly its expertise in energy - efficient operation -- complement hp '' s extensive datum center service and cost - save power and cool solution , such as dynamic smart cooling .
'' the datum center be the foundation of it for enterprise , a essential building block for drive business growth and adapt to change business objective , '' say john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp service .
'' acquire eyp mission critical facility boost hp '' s ability to help customer transform they datum center and build dynamic computing environment from the ground up . '' .
peter gross , chief executive officer of eyp mcf , say , '' worldwide datum center requirement be rapidly grow , with significant year - over - year increase in power consumption , which be fuel demand for energy - efficient power and cooling strategy .
hp and eyp mission critical facility will drive innovation by integrate it infrastructure into the planning and design of the datum center , enable the customer '' s whole organization to be more energy efficient and adaptive . '' .
the transaction be subject to certain closing condition and be expect to be complete within hp '' s first fiscal quarter .
media teleconference .
hp will hold a media teleconference to discuss the announcement at 7 : 15 - 7 : 45 a . m . pt today .
dial - in number : +1 8772689324 8772689324 8772689324 .
conference id : 24256919 .
a replay of the call will be available later in the day .
about eyp mission critical facility , inc .
eyp mission critical facility , inc . -lrb- www . eypmcf . com -rrb- be a consulting firm whose unique approach to achieve client '' energy - efficient operational continuity be base upon the integration of strategic technology planning , innovative design and on - site support .
through develop proprietary product and process , author technical white papers , and present at international conference , eyp mcf be recognize as a worldwide thought leader in the mission - critical industry .
about hp .
hp focus on simplify technology experience for all of its customer -- from individual consumer to the largest business .
with a portfolio that span printing , personal computing , software , service and it infrastructure , hp be among the world '' s largest it company , with revenue total 100 . 5 billion for the four fiscal quarter end july 31 , 2007 .
more information about hp -lrb- nyse : hpq -rrb- be available at http : / / www . hp . com .
hewlett-packard bet ed will fuel hot streak .
with its second-largest deal , computer giant hope to grab bigger share of the $ 550 billion technology-service market .
ride a hot streak that have double its stock price in three year , hewlett-packard be roll the dice on a $ 13.2 billion acquisition of technology service provider electronic datum system .
the all-cash deal , announce tuesday , represent hp 's biggest gamble under the leadership of mark hurd , who be hire as chief executive in march 2005 to turn around the maker of personal computer and printer .
hurd have relentlessly cut cost while demand better execution from the company 's remain worker .
meanwhile , hp have recover from a nagging financial hangover that be exacerbate by the biggest acquisition in its 69-year history -- the $ 19 billion purchase of compaq computer , complete in 2002 over strident shareholder objection .
hewlett-packard 's purchase of electronic datum system could mean tougher competition for ibm and its 10,500 triangle employee .
hp estimate that the deal , when complete , will give it about 7 percent of the technology service market , compare with ibm 's 10 percent share .
that mean that if thing go well long term , hp could catch big blue in the business of provide technology service such as datum management , information technology outsourcing and consulting , say morningstar equity analyst rick hanna .
'' while ibm be a clear no. 1 now ... hp-ed be a real player and potentially a long-term threat , '' hanna say .
in the short term , ibm have little to worry about , hanna say , give its clear leadership in technology service , which account for about 60 percent of its revenue .
now hp will try to show that it learn from its mistake by make the second-largest deal in its history pay off more quickly .
investor be worry that hp be take a unnecessary risk on ed , whose disappointing profit margin have cause its stock to drop by about 30 percent in the past year .
hp share sag $ 2.56 tuesday to finish at $ 44.27 .
'' it appear to be a very daunting deal , '' say american technology research analyst shaw wu .
the $ 25-per-share sale price represent a nice payoff for ed stockholder , who will receive a nearly 33 percent premium compare with the company 's share price before news of the hp talk leak out monday .
ed share add 26 cent to close at $ 24.34 tuesday .
include ed ' net debt , hp value the acquisition at $ 13.9 billion .
base on ed ' nearly 530 million common share , restricted stock unit and option , the sale price work out to $ 13.2 billion .
that represent about one-fourth of the $ 50 billion increase in hp 's market value since hurd join the company .
hp prize ed because it want to become a much bigger competitor in technology service -- a wide-ranging category that include run computer datum center , stitch together software program and consult on special project for business and government client .
hp get into datum center design ; acquire eyp mission critical facility .
publish : 13 nov 2007 .
hewlett - packard co . announce yesterday that it will acquire eyp mission critical facility inc . , a datum center consulting business , to bolster its own position in the datum center facility space .
big blue to meet its match in hp-ed .
the repercussion from the merger of electronic datum system -lrb- ed quote - cramer on ed - stock pick -rrb- with hewlett-packard -lrb- hpq quote - cramer on hpq - stock pick -rrb- will ripple broadly throughout the tech industry .
h-p announce tuesday that it will buy the outsourcing service company for $ 13.9 billion .
the deal will be bad '' for anyone that do not have h-p or ibm -lrb- ibm quote - cramer on ibm - stock pick -rrb- on they business card , '' say idc analyst bob welch .
even ibm , the leader in the global service and outsource business , will ultimately feel the pressure gartner put the worldwide market for it service in 2007 at $ 748 billion .
with $ 54 billion in service revenue , ibm have 7.2 % of the market .
at $ 22 billion , ed have 3 % , while h-p have 2.3 % .
and the merger could throw a wrench into ed 's agility alliance , a group of vendor that regularly coordinate to supply hardware , networking , software and service to ed 's outsource client .
the partnership have be very effective for ed and its partner , welch say .
hp acquire eyp mission critical facility .
hp today announce that it have sign a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facility inc . , a consult company specialize in strategic technology planning , design , and operation support for large - scale datum center .
11 / 12 / 2007 .
hp today announce that it have sign a definitive agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facility inc . -lrb- eyp mcf -rrb- , a consult company specialize in strategic technology planning , design , and operation support for large - scale datum center .
by acquire eyp mcf , hp will be better able to help customer to transform they datum center , optimize energy efficiency , and position they for future business growth .
headquarter in new york , eyp mcf have approximately 350 employee with 13 office in the united state and the uk .
the firm provide mission - critical service to enterprise around the world in business sector include financial service , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing , and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state , and county government agency .
from datum center and command and control center , to trade floor and supercompute site , eyp mcf have design hundred of technology - intensive , high - performance facility where monitoring , operational , and energy efficiency be top - priority business requirement .
eyp mcf '' s capability mdassml particularly its expertise in energy - efficient operation mdassml complement hp '' s extensive datum center service and cost - save power and cool solution , such as dynamic smart cooling .
'' the datum center be the foundation of it for enterprise , a essential building block for drive business growth and adapt to change business objective , '' say john mccain , senior vice president and general manager , hp service .
'' acquire eyp mission critical facility boost hp '' s ability to help customer transform they datum center and build dynamic computing environment from the ground up . '' .
peter gross , chief executive officer of eyp mcf , say , '' worldwide datum center requirement be rapidly grow , with significant year - over - year increase in power consumption , which be fuel demand for energy - efficient power and cooling strategy .
hp and eyp mission critical facility will drive innovation by integrate it infrastructure into the planning and design of the datum center , enable the customer '' s whole organization to be more energy efficient and adaptive . '' .
the transaction be subject to certain closing condition and be expect to be complete within hp '' s first fiscal quarter .
hp and ed combine would be about the same size as ibm global service .
industry source have confirm to eweek that hewlett-packard will acquire electronic datum system for about $ 13 billion .
the announcement may come as early as may 14 , the source tell eweek .
hp acknowledge the news first earlier may 12 .
'' there can be no assurance that a agreement will be reach or that a transaction will be consummate , '' hp say in a statement .
'' hp do not intend to comment further until a agreement be reach or discussion be terminate . '' .
ed 's response come about a hour later , also in the form of a statement .
in response to market rumor , electronic datum system corporation announce that it be in advanced discussion regard a possible business combination transaction with hewlett-packard company .
the company do not intend to comment further unless and until a definitive agreement have be enter into .
there can be no assurance that a definitive agreement will be enter into , '' the ed statement read .
the impending deal would make the newly merge company worth about $ 22 billion and put it on a level with ibm , the largest it service company in the world .
ed be the world leader in outsource it service ; .
hp provide outsourced service too , but focus mostly on hardware , software and associate service .
hp to acquire datum center cooling , energy specialist eyp .
november 12 , 2007 03 : 57 pm .
hewlett - packard on monday say it have agree to buy eyp mission critical facility , a consult company that specialize in datum center cooling and energy efficiency .
financial term be not disclose .
the acquisition , expect to close by the end of january , would provide hp with proprietary service and technology related to one of the hottest issue today in datum center planning and design .
because eyp service start at the ground level of data - center design , the company would give hp a early entry with its cool technology and energy - efficient storage product .
eyp , base in new york , have 350 employee spread through 13 office in the united state and the unite kingdom .
most of its operation , employee , and management team would be fold into hp .
eyp be lead by chairman steven einhorn and chief executive peter gross .
the need for more storage be grow as company expand they business and strive to meet legal and regulatory requirement for handle electronic document .
additional storage , however , also can increase energy consumption to run and cool more powerful server .
eyp proprietary product and service include eneropt , a software - base process to assess and benchmark energy efficiency ; a cooling design concept call cool design ; and a direct current power facility design call dc2 .
acquire eyp mission critical facility boost hp ability to help customer transform they datum center and build dynamic computing environment from the ground up , '' john mccain , senior vp and general manager for hp service , say in a statement .
industry in which eyp have customer include financial service , technology , telecommunications , broadcast , manufacturing , and health care .
the company also serve federal , state and local government agency .
besides the eyp deal , hp have make other datum center - related acquisition this year .
the largest be the 1 . 6 billion purchase of opsware , a maker of datum center automation software ; and the 214 million buy of neoware , a maker of hardware and software for thin - client desktop system .
impact of ed merger on south charleston unclear .
it be too early to tell what impact - if any - hewlett-packard co. 's decision to acquire electronic datum system corp. will have on ed ' operation in south charleston , a ed spokesman say .
earlier this month hewlett-packard unveil a bid of nearly $ 14 billion bid to purchase ed .
ed have about 50 employee in building 6000 at the south charleston technology park .
the worker manage the federal department of housing and urban development 's computer network of more than 18,000 user in more than 80 location .
ed win the 10-year contract in 2003 .
bill ritz , ed spokesman , point out that hewlett-packard 's acquisition of ed still need the approval of regulator and ed ' stockholder .
'' the deal be suppose to close sometime in the second half of 2008 , '' ritz say .
'' until it close , both company be competitor and it will be business as usual .
we will continue to put we customer first and serve they and help they compete in the global marketplace . '' .
any cut in staff be pure speculation at this point , ritz say .
'' a lot of work still need to be do , '' he say .
'' we need to let this play out and keep the focus on we customer and remember we be separate company now . '' .
hp snap up datum center consulting firm .
post 2007 - 11 - 12 .
the acquisition of eyp mission critical facility will help the oem expand its service division .
in a move that will expand its service division , hewlett - packard will acquire eyp mission critical facility , a new york company that offer datum center consulting service .
financial detail of the acquisition , announce nov . 12 , be not disclose .
hp announce that the deal would close during its first financial quarter .
eyp mission , which have 350 employee and 13 office in the united state and the unite kingdom , help plan , design , build and support large - scale datum center .
in a statement , hp executive say eyp mission emphasis on design energy - efficient facility will complement its own datum center technology , such as hp dynamic smart cooling .
at the hp technology forum & expo in june , ceo mark hurd say the company need to move away from its traditional root as a hardware company that sell pc and server and toward a business that focus on deliver software and service to customer .
part of the change be to offer more service for business that be look to revamp or build new datum center , with a emphasis on offer better power efficiency by cut down on power and cooling cost .
in addition to hp , the other top - tier oem sun microsystem and dell look to expand they service division as a way to add to the bottom line , while offer customer a new set of choice to support datum center by lend they own level of expertise to the problem of maintain these type of facility .
the datum center be the foundation of it for enterprise , a essential building block for drive business growth and adapt to change business objective , '' john mccain , senior vice president and general manager of hp service , say in a statement .
eyp mission have experience in a number of field that require datum center service , include financial service , telecommunications , technology , broadcast , manufacturing and healthcare , as well as numerous federal , state and county government agency .
hewlett-packard 's ceo say he believe the ed acquisition will make the company 's service offering stronger .
hewlett-packard ceo mark hurd believe that the $ 13 billion acquisition of electronic datum system will help build out hp 's enterprise service offering and '' accelerate '' the company 's reach into new account , he say .
in a may 20 conference call with reporter to announce hp 's 2008 second-quarter financial earnings , hurd offer he thought on the upcoming acquisition of ed .
while hurd could not say when the deal would close , he note that hp be already look at way to integrate its software and service portfolio with ed ' business .
hurd imply that hp will streamline cost to make the acquisition profitable for shareholder as soon as possible .
several analyst have say they believe that hp , through its acquisition of ed and other company , be look to build a service division that will create a all-in-one shop for build state-of-the art datum center .
hp to acquire green consultancy eyp .
hp sign agreement to acquire eyp mission critical facility and incorporate energy - efficient - facility expertise into hp datum center service .
november 12 , 2007 02 : 14 pm et .
as part of its effort to support energy - efficient computing , hp monday announce it have sign a agreement to acquire facility consult firm eyp mission critical facility for a undisclosed sum .
hp say the deal , which will bring eyp mcf 350 employee into a new division under hp service , will help hp better address customer need for more efficient datum center .
the combined eyp and hp service will let large , enterprise company couple efficient facility design with a optimize it infrastructure .
until recently , hp official say , it executive handle facility and datum - center design effort separately .
with this acquisition , hp aim to bring the two more closely together and help build dynamic computing environment from the start .
datum center transformation be a key focal point for the hp service team , '' say john mccain , senior vice president and general manager of hp service .
power consumption be become one of the largest component in term of the bill in datum center today . '' .
to combat the increase in energy spending , hp lab have develop technology to conserve energy and deliver it via such product as hp dynamic smart cooling and hp thermal zone mapping .
the deal , accord to eyp mcf representative , will let consultant expand beyond facility plan and offer expertise in large - scale datum - center design .
it infrastructure be ready for a major paradigm shift in the way that mission - critical facility be deliver to the marketplace , '' say steve einhorn , chairman of eyp mcf .
the datum center and its facility be ready for a major change . '' .
hp say it expect the deal to close by its first fiscal 2008 quarter , which end january 31 .
november 12 , 2007 .
hp land green datacenter consultant eyp .
extend its reach into the ripening green - consult space , hp today announce the acquisition of eyp mission critical facility , a consult company specialize in strategic technology planning , design and operation support for large - scale datacenter .
extend its reach into the ripening green - consult space , hp today announce the acquisition of eyp mission critical facility , a consult company specialize in strategic technology planning , design and operation support for large - scale datacenter .
the financial detail of the acquisition be not disclose .
hp aim , however , be clear : to tap into the grow demand for more energy - efficient datacenter by bolster its exist datum center service , and no doubt hawk more hp gear along the way .
the datacenter be the foundation of it for enterprise , a essential building block for drive business growth and adapt to change business objective , '' say john mccain , senior vice president and general manager of hp service in a write statement .
acquire eyp mission critical facility boost hp ability to help customer transform they datacenter and build dynamic computing environment from the ground up . '' .
eyp have develop a green reputation since its establishment in 2001 as a split - off from a / e giant einhorn yaffee prescott .
headquarter in new york with 13 office worldwide and technical staff of more than 350 , the company arsenal of tool include a homegrown software package call eneropt , design to assess and optimize energy consumption in the datacenter .
among its client , the company claim 25 percent of the fortune magazine list of top epa green partner .
moreover , the company design the first leed - rate datacenter for fannie mae in urbana , maryland , and be currently design a datacenter for the lawrence berkeley national lab .
like other big - name hardware company , include ibm , dell , and sun , hp have be play up the green credentials of its wares , such as its smart dynamic cooling offering , power cap feature in its system insight manager software , and its recently announce line of more energy - efficient proliant bl460c blade .
moreover , the big boy of technology have also start add more green - hued service to they portfolio .
in august , ibm add http : / / blog . business2 . com / greenwombat / 2007 / 08 / ibm - move - into - . html carbon consult to business consulting operation .
also in august , sun unveil a eco service suite .
bt be also on the list .
hp acquisition of eyp be subject to certain closing condition and be expect to be complete within hp first fiscal quarter .
hp dig further into consulting .
november 12 , 2007 10 : 30 pm .
hp have be move fast and strong into service and have continue the trend with today acquisition of eyp mission critical facility , a consulting firm specialize in large datum center design and operation support .
come on the heel of last month expansion of they saas offering , one imagine that before long you will simply be able to turn you key over to hp and take off on a long vacation while they provision , support , and run you business .
in fact , this may not be far from the vision that ceo mark hurd have for the company , as reveal today also during he keynote speech at oracle openworld conference .
consolidation have clearly be on he mind , and the recent acquisition presage more in the future , drive as he state by '' ... a push from a it perspective to do more standardization and to have fewer supplier , '' as well as a number of player with a excess of cash on hand .
while i be certainly one of those push from the it perspective to have fewer supplier and more standardization , you have to be careful how you go about it , and although i be sure acquisition such as eyp mcf be brilliant for hp business , i be skeptical about they value to customer .
i think the conflation of purveyor of advice with purveyor of service and equipment be dangerous and if anyone be expect to get unbiased opinion out of eyp mcf about the gear to build out they datum center with , that probably go by the wayside .
consolidation can be a boon when it result in better alignment and firmer standard ; the danger be when the alignment lock you in to a vendor and the standard turn out to be proprietary .
jury convict man in woman death .
saturday , 28 september 2013 01 : 43 .
a jury in eastern oklahoma have convict a spiro man of two count of first - degree murder in the 2012 shooting death of he pregnant girlfriend .
the jury deliberate almost seven hour thursday before convict 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson in the death of 20 - year - old lonus flynn , of fort smith , ark .
the jury recommend the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole , the southwest time record report -lrb- http : / / bit . ly / 16vdn3e -rrb- .
he be to be sentence nov . 8 .
prosecutor allege that simpson shot flynn twice in the head because he do not want another child to support .
a dna expert testify that simpson father the fetus .
be glad it over .
be glad we get the verdict we get , '' say flynn father , herbert flynn .
she deserve it . '' .
during close argument , crawford county deputy prosecute attorney jacob howell show a photograph of flynn body in the driver seat of car , with bullet wound to she temple and forehead .
some audience member gasp loudly .
we know that how we get here , '' howell say , indicate the photo .
prosecutor acknowledge that the case against simpson be complicate and mostly circumstantial .
jury convict spiro man in shooting death of pregnant girlfriend .
post : sep 27 , 2013 5 : 50 pm .
update : sep 27 , 2013 5 : 50 pm .
a jury in eastern oklahoma have convict a spiro man of two count of first - degree murder in the 2012 shooting death of he pregnant girlfriend .
the jury deliberate almost seven hour thursday before convict 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson in the death of 20 - year - old lonus flynn of fort smith , ark .
the southwest time record report that the jury recommend the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole .
formal sentencing be set for 11 a . m . on nov . 8 .
prosecutor allege that simpson shot flynn twice in the head because he do not want another child to support .
a dna expert testify that simpson father the fetus .
simpson attorney , warren gotcher , argue that no witness could place simpson at the shooting scene and that he client be innocent .
the murder trial of a spiro man charge in the death of a pregnant arkansa woman and she fetus be underway in poteau .
prosecutor have charge 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson with two count of first - degree murder in the april 2012 shooting death of 20 - year - old lonus flynn of fort smith and the result death of the fetus .
the time record report friday that trial be expect to last several day .
prosecutor say simpson call flynn several time and arrange to meet she on a rural road , then shoot she in the head .
defense attorney warren gotcher say simpson do not call flynn and never own a phone like the one that call she the night she be kill .
gotcher also deny that simpson be the father of flynn baby .
scott peterson have be find guilty of first-degree murder , a verdict that mean he could be execute if these same juror vote as the '' conscience of they community '' that he deserve to die for he crime .
so scott peterson be convict because he be a liar and a cheat and a fink and because he famous lawyer be unable to come up with a plausible explanation for why laci peterson 's body wash up where it wash up .
in fact , he be convict in part because defense attorney mark gerago offer so many explanation for peterson 's conduct and laci 's disappearance that prosecutor be able to make juror laugh about the implausibility of they all .
in essence , the jury conclude that the circumstance surround laci peterson 's disappearance and death could not reasonably be explain in any other way but that scott peterson want she dead so he could continue and perhaps expand he secret life with amber frey .
peterson be find guilty because juror believe he have a motive to kill he wife and that peterson 's conduct -- before , during and after laci peterson 's disappearance -- be too suspicious to be purely coincidental .
post september 26 , 2013 - 3 : 47pm update september 27 , 2013 - 6 : 56am .
leflore jury : simpson guilty of kill pregnant girlfriend .
a spiro man be find guilty of two count of first - degree murder thursday evening in the 2012 shooting death of a fort smith woman and the subsequent death of she 8 - to 12 - week - old fetus .
a nine - woman , three - man leflore county jury deliberate almost seven hour before find christopher kenyon simpson , 27 , guilty of two count of first - degree murder .
juror recommend the maximum sentence , life without the possibility of parole and a 10 , 000 fine on both count .
formal sentencing be set for 11 a . m . nov . 8 before leflore county district judge jon sullivan .
flynn father herbert flynn of fort coffee say later , be glad it over .
be glad we get the verdict we get .
she deserve it . '' .
after the courtroom empty , crawford county deputy prosecute attorney jacob howell and district 27 assistant district attorney anthony evan credit the verdict in the complicated and mostly circumstantial case to smart , attentive juror .
in close argument on the sixth day of simpson trial , howell project onto a video screen a photo of 20 - year - old victim lonus flynn body sit in the driver seat of she car , bullet wound to she forehead and temple .
some audience member gasp audibly in the crowd , otherwise quiet courtroom gallery .
we know that how we get here , '' howell say , indicate the photo .
i hope we show you this be investigate thoroughly , and that every possible suspect be investigate and exclude except one , '' howell say .
the prosecution contend simpson plan the murder , then shoot flynn execution - style twice in the head on easter sunday , april 8 , 2012 , kill she and she fetus because he do not want another child to support , and flynn refuse a abortion .
a dna expert testify earlier that simpson father the fetus .
howell contend simpson planning begin in early april 2012 when he ask mackenzi clayton , a relative , about track a pay - as - you - go phone .
throughout the investigation and court proceedings , simpson repeatedly deny have buy such a phone despite a walmart video show he do so , then on wednesday he testify he buy it , but for clayton , not for himself , howell say .
howell remind the jury that flynn roommate testify flynn leave they apartment around 10 : 30 p . m . april 8 , a time match the 10 : 30 p . m . call simpson cousin wife testify she see he engage in at she garage .
howell remind juror that verizon wireless , cricket wireless and federal bureau of investigation cellular analysis expert testify about how the call between the phone simpson purchase and flynn phone ping in cell tower cover the u . s . 271 corridor where simpson plan to spend the night with he cousin in fort smith and the rural mcginnis lane area between pocola and spiro where flynn body be find .
between 10 : 37 and 10 : 58 p . m . april 8 , the pay - as - you - go phone call flynn phone six time .
arkansas state trooper mary minor testify she pull flynn over at 10 : 46 p . m . for speed on interstate 540 .
flynn be head toward oklahoma , minor state .
howell say at 11 : 01 p . m . flynn phone call the pay - as - you - go phone , and two employee of the sac - n - pac near mcginnis lane testify they hear two to three gunshot around 11 p . m .
howell contend simpson whereabouts be not account for between 10 : 30 p . m . and 11 : 21 p . m . , when he make a purchase at a e - z mart near he cousin home .
and howell remind juror that simpson cousin testify they become concerned about simpson prolonged absence for the quick trip to the e - z mart and call he three time begin at 11 p . m .
those call roll to voice mail .
in he close statement , defense attorney warren gotcher of mcalester argue that the two sac - n - pac clerk stay outside on they smoke break for 10 minute after hear the gunshot and never see a car exit mcginnis lane .
gotcher argue the timeline evidence show simpson could have be involve .
he say area resident erica hawkin see flynn car in the roadway at 11 : 41 p . m . , and pull around to shine she bright headlight on it .
he remind juror that hawkin testify the driver window be roll down and she see a red light inside the car , but she do see anyone in the car .
gotcher suggest the light could have be from a phone charger find unattached on the seat next to flynn .
gotcher say when deputy terry springwater arrive on the scene around 3 a . m . april 9 , the car window be roll only three - fourth the way down , the parking light be on , the trunk be unlatched and there be a body in the car .
gotcher remind juror a oklahoma state bureau of investigation expert testify that flynn body have not be move after she be shoot .
sometime between 11 : 41 p . m . and 3 a . m . , the window be roll three - fourth the way down , parking light turn on and trunk unlatched and maybe the phone charger disconnect , '' gotcher contend .
he contend , too , that clayton testify as the prosecution wish because he be afraid he parole would be revoke , and that simpson cousin , likewise , testify as they have because they be threaten with a firearm charge and have they child take away .
evan contend simpson attempt character assassination of flynn and attempt to divert blame for she murder to other because the defendant have the spotlight on he , and it hot , and he need to get it off he .
so what do he do ?
he push it over here .
desperate man do desperate thing . '' .
evan contend simpson destroy or manipulate evidence throughout the investigation .
i submit to you that beyond a reasonable doubt , the defendant be guilty of kill lonus flynn , and when he shoot she , he also kill he own child , '' evan say .
on november 12 , a jury in redwood city , california , convict scott peterson of first-degree murder in the death of he wife , 23-year-old laci , and second-degree murder in the death of he 8-month-old unborn son , whom the couple be plan to name conner .
laci disappear from the couple 's home in modesto , california , 23 month ago .
the body of laci and conner later wash up in the san francisco bay , near where scott tell police he have go fishing the day he wife disappear .
okla . man guilty of kill pregnant girlfriend .
publish 9 : 46 pm cdt sep 26 , 2013 .
a oklahoma man be find guilty thursday on two first - degree murder charge for the death of a arkansas woman and she fetus , accord to crawford county deputy prosecute attorney jacob howell .
christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee be accuse of fatally shooting lonus marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
prosecutor allege simpson shot flynn after she tell he she be pregnant .
flynn body be find in a car near spiro on april 9 .
simpson face life in prison .
he will be sentence november 8 .
dozen of people in laci peterson 's hometown who be donate blood in she memory applaud when they hear a jury 's decision to execute scott peterson for the murder of he pregnant wife .
oklahoma man plead not guilty in death of arkansa woman and she fetus .
publish : january 3 , 2013 .
a oklahoma man have plead not guilty to two first - degree murder charge for the death of a arkansas woman and she fetus .
trial be set for june 17 for 26 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee , who be accuse of fatally shooting lonus marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
a local newspaper report that simpson have be hold without bond at the leflore county jail since he arrest on june 21 .
flynn body be find in a car near spiro on april 9 .
prosecutor allege simpson shot flynn after she tell he she be pregnant .
lawyer for simpson not want prosecutor to be able to use phone record that allegedly place simpson in the area of the slaying on grounds that authority obtain they without a warrant .
laci peterson 's love one have '' a hole in they heart that will never be repair , '' a prosecutor tell juror today as he ask they to send convict double-murderer scott peterson to he death for kill he wife and unborn son .
the jury convict the 32-year-old peterson on nov. 12 of first-degree murder for kill he wife and second-degree murder for the death of he unborn son .
okla . man guilty of kill pregnant girlfriend .
a oklahoma man be find guilty thursday on two first - degree murder charge for the death of a arkansas woman and she fetus , accord to crawford county deputy prosecute attorney jacob howell .
christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee be accuse of fatally shooting lonus marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
prosecutor allege simpson shot flynn after she tell he she be pregnant .
flynn body be find in a car near spiro on april 9 .
simpson face life in prison .
he will be sentence november 8 .
peterson , 32 , be convict of two count of murder in the death of he wife , laci , and she fetus .
christopher simpson shoot pregnant girlfriend dead cause he do want another child to support .
a oklahoma jury have find 27 year old christopher simpson guilty of first degree murder of he then pregnant 20 year old girlfriend lonus flynn and they 12 week unborn child .
the murder come after flynn resist simpson demand to have a abortion and he reluctance with have to deal with another child to support . ' .
in find christopher simpson guilty the jury recommend that he be send to maximum life in prison without parole .
he sentencing be schedule for november 8 .
prosecutor allege that simpson , who have at least one child from a past relationship , shot flynn twice in the head because he do not want another baby to support .
a dna expert testify that the 27 - year - old father the 12 - week - old fetus .
the murder be say to have take place on april 9 at 3 be in flynn car which be park at the time .
it be until in late june that authority arrest christopher simpson believe that he be the chief instigator of she death .
tell the decease father , herbert flynn jr : be glad it over .
be glad we get the verdict we get .
she deserve it . ' .
during close argument , crawford county deputy prosecute attorney jacob howell show a photograph of flynn body in the driver seat of car , with bullet wound to she temple and forehead .
prosecutor go on to acknowledge that the case against simpson be complicate and mostly circumstantial .
tell howell : i hope we show you this be investigate thoroughly , and that every possible suspect be investigate and exclude except one . ' .
simpson attorney , warren gotcher , argue that no witness could place simpson at the crime scene and that he client be innocent .
prosecutor anthony evan counter by tell that simpson be try to deflect blame because the defendant have the spotlight on he , and it hot , and he need to get it off he .
so what do he do ?
he push it over here .
desperate man do desperate thing . ' .
accord to a police affidavit , the couple have be date for about three month when the 20 - year - old find out she be pregnant .
purportedly simpson become angry and express that he do not want to be a father again .
push to get a abortion , flynn decline tell christopher simpson that she do not believe in abortion .
of course the better question may have be if either one of the couple believe in use contraceptive and if not why ?
herbert flynn jr tell 5new after simpson arrest that on the night of he daughter murder , she be plan to meet with she boyfriend to ask for help in apply for government assistance .
around the time of the shooting , simpson be late on child support payment for he 7 - year - old daughter , and accord to a local sheriff , he have make statement to he friend that he do not want another child .
after flynn death , a witness tell police that simpson brag to he that he girlfriend killing will never be solve because it be too clean and the perfect murder . ' .
the 20 - year - old woman , who aspire to be a nurse , allegedly tell a friend a short time before the slaying that simpson have threaten to end the pregnancy for she if she refuse to abort the baby .
the case first capture the nation 's attention when laci peterson disappear from she modesto home the day before christmas 2002 and have engross the country ever since .
unlike on nov. 12 , when sob fill the air as peterson be find guilty of murder he wife and they unborn child , there be a almost surreal stillness in the courtroom while the death recommendation be announce .
peterson be convict nov. 12 of first-degree murder for the death of laci peterson and second-degree murder for the death of they unborn son just before christmas 2002 .
the same jury that recommend peterson 's penalty find he guilty of the first-degree murder of he wife and the second-degree murder of he unborn child .
jury convict spiro man in shooting death of pregnant girlfriend .
post : sep 27 , 2013 10 : 50am cdt .
a jury in eastern oklahoma have convict a spiro man of two count of first - degree murder in the 2012 shooting death of he pregnant girlfriend .
the jury deliberate almost seven hour thursday before convict 27 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson in the death of 20 - year - old lonus flynn of fort smith , ark .
the southwest time record report that the jury recommend the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole .
formal sentencing be set for 11 a . m . on nov . 8 .
prosecutor allege that simpson shot flynn twice in the head because he do not want another child to support .
a dna expert testify that simpson father the fetus .
simpson attorney , warren gotcher , argue that no witness could place simpson at the shooting scene and that he client be innocent .
a jury find scott peterson guilty friday of kill he pregnant wife , laci , and they unborn child in the saga of suburban adultery and betrayal that transfix much of the nation for nearly two year .
peterson , a 32-year-old fertilizer salesman from modesto , show no emotion , stare stonily at the jury box as the foreman announce a finding of first-degree murder in the death of laci and second-degree murder in the death of they near-term son , whom the couple have name conner .
man find guilty of shoot dead pregnant girlfriend execution - style because he do want another child to support .
september 27 , 2013 .
a jury in eastern oklahoma have convict a 27 - year - old man of shooting dead he pregnant girlfriend and she unborn baby after she refuse to get a abortion .
the jury deliberate almost seven hour thursday before convict christopher kenyon simpson , of spiro , in the death of 20 - year - old lonus flynn , of fort smith , arkansa .
the juror recommend the maximum sentence of life in prison without parole .
simpson be schedule to be sentence november 8 .
upon learning of he death sentence , scott peterson sit defiantly still and tight-jawed , the same vacant expression he wear throughout a murder trial in which he never speak .
man find guilty of shoot dead pregnant girlfriend execution - style because .
release 2013 - 09 - 28 05 : 08 : 35 gmt .
a jury in eastern oklahoma have convict a 27 - year - old man of shooting dead he pregnant girlfriend and she unborn baby after she refuse to get a abortion .
the jury deliberate almost seven hour thursday before convict christopher kenyon simpson , .
a oklahoma man have plead not guilty to two first - degree murder charge for the death of a arkansas woman and she fetus .
trial be set for june 17 for 26 - year - old christopher kenyon simpson of fort coffee , who be accuse of fatally shooting lonus marie flynn of fort smith , ark .
the southwest time record report simpson have be hold without bond at the leflore county jail since he arrest on june 21 .
flynn body be find in a car near spiro on april 9 .
prosecutor allege simpson shot flynn after she tell he she be pregnant .
lawyer for simpson not want prosecutor to be able to use phone record that allegedly place simpson in the area of the slaying on grounds that authority obtain they without a warrant .
the philadelphia 76er fire coach maurice cheek on saturday , one day after the team continue its slide with a season-worst offensive effort , dpa report .
expect by many to be one of the top team in the eastern conference , the 76er have open 9-14 with eight loss in they last 10 game , include friday 's dispirited 88-72 setback at cleveland .
cheek be replace on a interim basis by assistant general manager tony dileo , a long-time member of the team 's front office dileo will coach the sixer in saturday 's game at washington and be expect to remain coach for the rest of the season .
a year ago , the sixer fire president billy king and replace he with ed stefanskus , who give cheek a one-year contract extension through the 2008-09 season and another one-year extension earlier this year , after philadelphia use a second-half surge to make the playoff for the first time since 2005 .
'' decision of this nature be never easy , and this be particularly difficult due to the great amount of respect i have for maurice cheek , '' stefanskus say .
'' however , at this time i feel that it be in the best interest of this team to make a change while there be still time to accomplish the goal we set forth for ourselves at the start of the season . '' .
in the off-season , stefanski land free agent forward elton brand and reinked young star andre iguodala and loui william to long term deal .
the addition of brand be suppose to transform philadelphia into a contender .
however , brand and iguodala have have difficulty get they game to mesh .
cheek have have disagreement with start centre samuel dalembert , bench he for long stretch .
the team hear boo in wednesday 's home loss to cleveland .
a philadelphia fixture who spend he first 11 season as a player with the 76er and have he number-10 jersey retire by the club , cheek be 122-147 in three-plus season as head coach in the city of brotherly love .
cheek come to philadelphia from portland , where he be 162-139 with two postseason appearance in three-plus season .
dileo have never be a nba coach .
he be a scout and assistant coach before move into management as director of player personnel in 1999 .
he become assistant gm in 2003 .
dileo play and coach for 10 season in west germany and be name coach of the year in 1987 in the top west german league .
'' tony dileo have a wealth of basketball knowledge and coaching experience - both in the nba and on the international level - and be familiar not only with we current group of player but the style of play we be strive to attain on a consistent basis , '' stefanskus say .
cheek be the fifth coach fire this season , after pj carlesimo of oklahoma city , eddie jordan of washington , sam mitchell of toronto and randy wittman of minnesota .
there be speculation that stefanski may reach out to jordan , as the two work together with the new jersey net earlier this decade .
sixer hire maurice cheek as head coach .
maurice cheek be officially introduce as the 21st head coach of the 76er .
cheek , who play for the sixer for 11 season and serve as a assistant coach for seven , be name coach after jim o'brien be relieve of he coaching duty .
maurice cheek have be fire as head coach of the philadelphia 76er follow the club 's disappointing 9-14 start to the season .
the sixer have drop they last three and be just 2-8 in they last ten after high expectation follow a offseason that bring elton brand to philly .
cheek have sign a extension to he contract in september that be guarantee through next year but the club feel they need to make a change to reverse they fortune .
assistant general manager tony dileo will replace cheek as the interim head coach and he be expect to hold the position through the year .
philadelphia fan have expect the 76er to be a contender this year follow a playoff appearance one year ago and then add brand .
never before in nba history have coach fall this early in the season in such number .
now , maurice cheek become the nba 's fifth coaching casualty of the season .
on saturday , cheek be fire as head coach of the philadelphia 76er .
with the off-season acquisition of elton brand , the 2008-09 season be suppose to be a good one for the sixer .
unfortunately , it have not play out that way to date .
despite lead the team in score , brand have not yet live up to expectation and the rest of the team also have struggle .
the sixer have a record of 9-14 and have be expect to be a playoff contender in the eastern conference .
accord to the associated press , the dismissal come hour before the 76er be to play at home saturday night , with dileo now make he coaching debut against washington .
dileo have spend 19 season with the 76er .
he be promote to senior vice president/assistant general manager in 2003 .
cheek be one of more the popular player in 76er history and be start he fourth season as coach .
gm ed stefanskus have give cheek two contract extension in the past season , but the slow start be enough to cost he he job .
philadelphia 76er management have enough of the nba team lurk near the bottom of the eastern conference standing and fire head coach maurice cheek on saturday .
assistant general manager tony dileo be name interim coach .
'' decision of this nature be never easy , and this be particularly difficult due to the great amount of respect i have for maurice cheek , '' team president and general manager ed stefanskus say .
'' however , at this time i feel that it be in the best interest of this team to make a change while there be still time to accomplish the goal we set forth for ourselves at the start of the season . '' .
the 76er drop they third game in a row on friday , a 88-72 setback to cleveland , and occupy last place in the atlantic division with a 9-14 record .
cheek would become the fifth nba coach fire this season , along with p.j. carlesimo -lrb- oklahoma city -rrb- , eddie jordan -lrb- washington -rrb- , sam mitchell -lrb- toronto -rrb- and randy wittman -lrb- minnesota -rrb- .
the former 76er point guard for much of the 1980s come back to the city to assume coaching duty prior to the 2005 season .
last season he lead the club to they first postseason berth in four year .
cheek have a overall record of 284-286 , which include nearly four year as coach of portland .
stefanski have give cheek two contract extension in the past season , but the slow start be enough to cost he he job .
the sixer have hardly resemble last season 's up-tempo group that advance to the playoff , despite the addition of free agent elton brand .
dileo have spend 19 season with the 76er and be promote to senior vice president and assistant general manager in 2003 .
prior to join the organization he have amateur coaching experience .
philadelphia host the washington wizard on saturday .
the philadelphia 76er fire coach maurice cheek saturday morning after a disappointing 9-14 start to the 2008-09 season .
the sixer have a three-game losing streak go into saturday night 's contest against washington , and more have be expect from a team that sign free-agent forward elton brand to a five-year , $ 80 million contract in the off-season .
'' i make the decision because i feel we be not progress the way we want to progress , '' say general manager ed stefanskus at a news conference .
'' i feel on the floor we be not execute the philosophy that we want to have as sixer basketball . '' .
stefanski say tony dileo , the team 's assistant general manager and senior vice president , will coach the team the rest of this season .
exclude brand 's 15.9 point and 10 rebound , the team 's star have not play up to past standard .
andre miller be average 15.5 point per game , andre iguodala 14.9 point , a drop of five point per game from last season , while samuel dalembert be down almost five point per game with he 5.8 point and just over two rebound .
cheek compile a 162-139 record in three-plus season and coach the 76er to 40 regular-season victory in 2007-08 before a six-game loss to detroit in the eastern conference quarterfinal .
he be the fifth nba head coach fire this season , join oklahoma city 's p.j.carlesimo , washington 's eddie jordan , toronto 's sam mitchell and minnesota 's randy wittman .
maurice cheek be out as philadelphia 76er head coach .
general manager ed stefanskus announce tony dileo , the team 's assistant general manager and senior vice president , will take over as the head coach for the remainder of the season .
stefanski fire cheek with the sixer flounder at 9-14 and in the basement of the eastern conference 's atlantic division .
as recently as a season ago , when speak about cheek ' new contract extension , stefanski say , '' we be excite about the future under this direction . '' .
that change dramatically on saturday .
'' i make the decision because i feel we be not progress the way we want to progress , '' say stefanski .
'' i feel on the floor we be not execute the philosophy that we want to have as sixer basketball .
i tell mo we need to go in a different direction and make a change .
he be very gracious about it .
he be a sixer and be root for we to turn this around . '' .
this past offseason , the sixer bolster they youthful , athletic roster with frontline cornerstone elton brand , who be lead the team in score -lrb- 15.9 -rrb- and rebound -lrb- 10.0 -rrb- but be significantly short of he career score average and have already miss time this season due to injury .
the expectation be high for a team that win 40 game and take detroit to six game in the eastern conference quarterfinal round last season .
cheek do not meet they .
friday night 's 88-72 loss in cleveland , the team 's eighth in 10 game , be apparently the last straw cheek be the fifth nba head coach to be fire this season .
'' i believe in this team .
we be better than this , '' say stefanski .
'' we be go to make it better .
we will find a way to improve on this team '' .
the member of the sixer ' 1982-83 nba championship team start he head coaching career in portland , where he finish with a 162-139 mark and a pair of playoff appearance .
he guide a transition in philadelphia from the allen iverson era and win more game than expect last season behind a rise star , andre iguodala , a young frontcourt lead by samuel dalembert and a veteran presence at point guard , andre miller .
miller be average 15.5 point per game this season , but iguodala be average just 14.9 point per contest , a drop of five point per game from last season .
dalembert be down almost five point per game -lrb- 5.8 ppg -rrb- and just over two rebound -lrb- 8.0 -rrb- per contest .
dileo be in he 19th season with the sixer basketball operation department .
he spend four season as the team 's director of personnel -lrb- 1999-2003 -rrb- before be promote to senior vp and assistant gm in september 2003 .
cheek return as sixer fixer jim o'brien be show the door after a single tumultuous season .
post : may 24 , 2005 .
billy king spin the 76er head coach revolving door again yesterday , push out jim o'brien after just one season and bring in maurice cheek , the popular former sixer player and assistant coach , as o'brien replacement .
nearly three week after the sixer end they season , king decide to fire o'brien , who still have two year and 8 million leave on the contract he sign when he be hire by the sixer on april 21 , 2004 .
cheek , who be fire march 2 as head coach of the portland trail blazer , be the fourth head coach since king take over as the team president and general manager on may 26 , 2003 .
that be the same date that larry brown resign from the sixer after six season , the last time coaching stability exist with the team .
cheek be a second - round draft choice of the 76er in 1978 and play for 11 season with the team .
he be the point guard and floor leader of the sixer 1983 nba title team .
at a news conference last night at the philadelphia college of osteopathic medicine , king say he have the support of ed snider , the chairman of comcast - spectacor , the team owner , for he latest move even though the sixer will be pay ex - coach randy ayer -lrb- 2 million -rrb- and o'brien along with cheek next season .
in talk with ed , we feel the main focus be that we want to make the right decision and not let money be the factor , '' king say .
we think we owe it to we fan and the city of philadelphia to do that . '' .
cheek , 48 , a four - time nba all - star while with the sixer , be fire from the blazer , he first head coaching job , in the middle of he fourth season .
he lead the team to a 162 - 139 record .
two year ago , after brown resigned , king look to cheek to take over as brown successor .
but the trail blazer rebuff he three time , because cheek be still under contract to they .
the sixer then hire ayer , who last 52 game before be replace by chris ford .
king say he decide on saturday to fire o'brien , and then check with cheek to see if he be interested in the job .
cheek say he would be , and king call he again yesterday and reach a deal after notify o'brien of he decision .
term of the deal be not disclose .
when king hire o'brien , he have call he a perfect fit for the job .
o'brien do lead the sixer to a 43 - 39 record - a 10 - win improvement over the previous season - and a playoff berth and coach allen iverson to he fourth nba score title .
but in evaluate the season , king say he do think the sixer be head in the right direction .
he have a problem with the team style of play , which include reliance on the three - point basket and a defense that protect the paint but have trouble get out on perimeter shooter .
there be also talk that o'brien be aloof and not communicative with he player .
he do not start samuel dalembert , a develop young center , until the season 19th game , and he do not play willie green with iverson for much of the season final four month because he feel that be a bad matchup defensively .
king say that in he postseason meeting with player , not one of they say they would play for jim ... ... ...
that they all come back ready to go and try to go further in the playoff . '' .
but other thing bother he .
king say he do want to make a snap decision when the season end on may 3 , the day that the detroit piston eliminate the sixer from the playoff .
he talk to he management team , go on vacation for a week , then make he decision on saturday .
in the interview process with jim , there be a lot of thing that we talk about , '' king say .
but in watch the season , evaluate we young player development and evaluate we style of play , it be something i be comfortable with . '' .
reach by telephone yesterday , o'brien decline to comment .
be not go to have any discussion about this , '' he say .
king say that when he break the news yesterday to o'brien , he ask why , and i tell he that i just feel there be some thing that take place that i not think will change and be go to make a change .
he say , thank you . ' '' .
snider , who attend king news conference , say he back king .
i really not question billy at all , '' he say .
i know what go on in the process when he make this decision , as well as the decision to hire jim o'brien .
have support he move , and i still do . '' .
o'brien be excite to come back to philadelphia because of he root in the city .
cheek , who be expect to speak at a press conference today , be excite to be come back to philadelphia because of all the success he enjoy here as a player , follow by seven season as a assistant coach .
mo be family , '' king say .
mo bleed 76er .
he bleed philadelphia . '' .
he be still the franchise all - time leader in assist and steal .
cheek also play with san antonio , new york , atlanta and new jersey before retire in 1993 .
cheek return to the sixer in 1994 as a assistant coach and stay for seven season until the trail blazer hire he as head coach on june 27 , 2001 .
under cheek guidance , the blazer make the playoff in 2002 and 2003 , but do not get out of the first round .
they miss the postseason in 2004 , break a streak of 21 consecutive year in the playoff , and be wrack by dissension .
i look at mo cheek and i know mo cheek , '' king say .
if player have problem with mo cheek , then there get to be something wrong with those player . '' .
under o'brien , the former head coach of the boston celtic , iverson move from shooting guard to point guard and respond with a mvp - caliber season , win he fourth nba score title .
but o'brien be go now .
cheek be in .
and king know he be hold accountable .
i look in the mirror every day , '' king say .
be not somebody that above scrutiny , but i think i try to do the best i can and make the best decision . '' .
maurice cheek be fire saturday as coach of the philadelphia 76er , who be slump at 9-14 a year after make the playoff .
assistant general manager tony dileo be appoint coach for rest of the season .
the dismissal come hour before the 76er be to play at home , with dileo make he coaching debut against washington .
team president ed stefanskus say he meet with cheek , describe the former 76er star as a '' gentleman throughout '' and a '' class act . '' .
'' i feel we be not progress the way we have want to progress , '' stefanskus say .
'' i do not feel on the floor we be execute the philosophy we want to have as sixer basketball . '' .
cheek be one of more the popular player in 76er history and be start he fourth season as coach stefanski have give cheek two contract extension in the past season , but the slow start be enough to cost he he job .
cheek become the fifth nba coach fire this season follow p.j. carlesimo -lrb- oklahoma city -rrb- , eddie jordan -lrb- washington -rrb- , sam mitchell -lrb- toronto -rrb- and randy wittman -lrb- minnesota -rrb- .
a message leave on cheek ' cell phone be not immediately return .
dileo have spend 19 season with the 76er .
he be promote to senior vice president/assistant general manager in 2003 .
he son , t.j. dileo , be a guard for temple and he say after the owl ' 88-72 win over no. 8 tennessee that he be excite he father have a chance to coach .
'' i think it be unfortunate for mo , he be a great coach , but my dad be ready to step in , '' dileo say .
'' this catch we by surprise .
we have no idea . '' .
dileo say he have not talk to he father yet , but notice one miss call from he on he cell phone .
cheek lead the 76er to the playoff last year for the first time while he be coach .
philadelphia be one of the surprise team in the east last season , and the 76er anticipate a deep run in the playoff this year .
they sign elton brand to a five-year deal worth nearly $ 80 million last summer , but they have struggle with he in the lineup and have lose eight of 10 .
last season , the 76er lose in the first round to detroit .
after a 18-30 start , philadelphia win 18 of its next 23 game and wind up at 40-42 , the sixth seed in the eastern conference .
stefanski reward cheek with two contract extension in seven month that would have take he to the end of next season .
instead , with the team on a three-game losing streak and last in the atlantic division , he do not even last until the end of the calendar year .
cheek also coach at portland .
he play 15 season in the nba , the first 11 with philadelphia , and retire in 1993 .
a outstanding defensive player , cheek play in four all-star game and be a member of the 76er ' championship team in 1982-83 .
he no. 10 jersey hang in the rafter .
mo cheek will take over as new coach .
update : may 24 , 2005 , 3 : 23 pm et .
maurice cheek be run the show again for the philadelphia 76er .
in a surprising move nearly three week follow the end of they season , the sixer fire jim o'brien on monday after one season as coach and replace he with cheek , one of the most popular player in franchise history .
mo be family .
mo bleed 76er . he bleed philadelphia , '' team president billy king say .
cheek will be introduce as philadelphia 21st head coach at a tuesday news conference .
philadelphia be certainly bank on the former point guard to have a happier homecoming than o'brien , a philadelphia native who play for saint joseph .
o'brien stubbornness and seemingly unwavering belief in a system that do fit he player cost he he job despite a 43 - 39 record and a return to the playoff .
i just feel the direction we be go and the overall play be where we want to go , '' king say .
o'brien just finish the first year of a three - year deal that include a option and pay he about 4 million a year .
o'brien , though , be not very popular with he player - - most notably former all - star chris webber - - who often complain about they role .
king say after the sixer be eliminate in the first round of the playoff by detroit that he plan to bring o'brien back .
after meet with he player and other member of management , king have a change of heart and decide over the weekend he have to make a change .
certainly , king know a thing or two about make change - - cheek will be the fifth sixer coach in four year under he watch .
larry brown left for detroit follow the 2002 - 03 season , and assistant randy ayer be promote and fire 52 game into the 2003 - 04 season before he be replace by chris ford .
i know this thing be come , and it be a easy thing for anybody , '' brown say from miami before coaching the piston in the eastern conference final .
know billy , it not easy to let a coach go .
he relationship with randy be pretty strong .
i think it be hard for he to let chri go .
he be excite about have jimmy , but i not think it ever get easy . '' .
cheek be one of the most popular 76er from 1978 - 89 and play on philadelphia last championship team in 1983 .
he also spend seven season as a assistant coach for the 76er , be part of the staff under brown when they go to the nba final in 2001 and develop a strong bond with allen iverson .
cheek be fire march 2 after nearly four season as coach of the trail blazer .
he have a 162 - 139 record in portland , the fourth - highest win total in blazer history .
cheek guide the team to the playoff he first two season , but the player hardly make cheek tenure easy - - on or off the court .
the team be nickname the jail blazer after several brush with the law , many of they involve marijuana possession .
if player have problem with mo cheek ... ... ... then there get to be something wrong with those player , '' king say .
but cheek return to the city where he be a four - time all - star should come as a surprise .
the trail blazer turn down philadelphia request to speak to cheek as a possible replacement for brown , but the former point guard always remain popular with philly fan and be at the top of the sixer short list to take over for ford .
now , they get they wish .
we do not want to change coach -lsb- again -rsb- , '' sixer chairman ed snider say .
have see enough coach . '' .
the sixer will pay ayer , o'brien and cheek next season .
i not think it something be very proud of , but i not think it reflect poorly , '' snider say .
o'brien be the son - in - law of hall of fame coach jack ramsay .
he lead the sixer to a 10 - win improvement from a year ago and they return to the playoff , largely on the back of a healthy , happy iverson .
while o'brien avoid public spat with iverson , he do not have the full support of the rest of the team .
some of the younger player , like samuel dalembert and willie green , feel they do not develop like they should have under o'brien and be unsure about they role .
in look at the development of some of they , yeah , i be pleased , '' king say .
the sixer also fail to really understand o'brien defense , a sticking point even in the postseason .
some of the criterion on we defense be there , '' king say .
cheek , who once famously come to the rescue of a 13 - year - old girl who forget the word to the national anthem before a playoff game , now hope to bail out he former team and bring they another championship .
mo have play this game here in philadelphia , win a championship here in philadelphia , understand player , understand defens , understand the way i think we want to play , '' king say .
philadelphia 76er president and general manager ed stefanskus announce that the team have relieve maurice cheek of he head coaching responsibility .
cheek will be replace on a interim basis by sixer senior vice president and assistant general manager tony dileo , who will remain in the position through the end of the 2008-09 season .
'' decision of this nature be never easy , and this be particularly difficult due to the great amount of respect i have for maurice cheek , '' stefanskus say .
'' however , at this time i feel that it be in the best interest of this team to make a change while there be still time to accomplish the goal we set forth for ourselves at the start of the season .
'' tony dileo have a wealth of basketball knowledge and coaching experience - both in the nba and on the international level - and be familiar not only with we current group of player but the style of play we be strive to attain on a consistent basis . '' .
dileo be in he 19th season with the sixer organization and be in he fifth as the team 's senior vice president and assistant general manager .
during he tenure with the sixer , dileo have be involve in every aspect of the team 's basketball operation .
in he role as senior vice president and assistant general manager , dileo be responsible for assist stefanskus with player procurement via he evaluation of amateur and professional talent while supervise the team 's draft effort and oversee the college and professional scout system .
prior to that , dileo spend four season as the sixer director of player personnel -lrb- 1999-2003 -rrb- and have serve as a assistant coach under larry brown , jim lynam , fred carter , john luca and doug moe .
dileo have extensive experience in international basketball as both a player and a coach .
he coach the former west german man 's and woman 's team from 1979-90 , win nine national title in that country 's top division , earn coach of the year honor in 1987 .
additionally , he be select as the west german federation national coach from 1981-85 and during that time , write and publish the european basketball handbook , a guide design to acclimate american player overseas .
a star at cinnaminson -lrb- n.j. -rrb- high school , dileo go on to play at tennessee tech and lasalle university , where as a junior he be name first-team academic all-american and go on to graduate maximum cum laude from the lasalle school of business .
cheek be name the 21st head coach in team history on may 23 , 2005 .
in just over three season at the helm for philadelphia , cheek compile a mark of 122-147 -lrb- .454 -rrb- .
last season , cheek guide the sixer to the nba playoff for the first time since the 2004-05 season , after start the year with a 18-30 record .
the sixer go on to win 18 of they next 23 game , become just the sixth team in nba history to go over .500 after be at least 12 game below .500 at some point during the same season .
in 2006-07 , cheek help rally the sixer from a 5-19 start to make a push for the playoff with a 35-47 record .
philadelphia increase they winning percentage to .519 in game play after january 1 , compare to a win percentage of just .267 during the first two month of the year - the biggest improvement by any team in the league during that span .
the sixer also tie for the eighth best win percentage after the all-star break -lrb- 18-11 ; .621 -rrb- .
in he first season as head coach of the sixer , cheek guide the team to a 38-44 mark and fall just two win shy of reach the post-season .
on april 18 of that year , he earn the 200th win of he coaching career .
cheek record as a nba head coach with both portland and philadelphia stand at 284-286 -lrb- .498 -rrb- .
philadelphia 76er fire jim o'brien , coach . name maurice cheek coach .
not because mo cheek be long for the job with the philadelphia 76er .
like all coach not in the upper stratosphere of the coaching hierarchy -- you phil jackson and gregg popovich -- he be only as good as he last 10-game stretch , only as secure as how well he star be play .
but the 76er , while underachieve at 9-14 when cheek be fire saturday morning , be not a embarassment when they go on the court , not a disjointed bunch that clearly be no longer listen to or play for its coach .
this be not p.j. carlesimo -lrb- oklahoma city -rrb- or eddie jordan -lrb- washington -rrb- , whose team 's putrid won-loss record sink any chance they have of survival .
this be not sam mitchell -lrb- toronto -rrb- , whose difference of opinion with he general manager about he team 's personnel be too big to overcome .
this be not randy wittman -lrb- minnesota -rrb- , whose fan base be stay away in drove as the pay public grow indifferent to the on-court product .
the timing of this move by team president and general manager ed stefanski be a head-scratcher .
'' it be not 100 percent on the coach , '' a source with knowledge of the 76er ' thinking say saturday afternoon .
'' but at the same time , we do not seem to have a plan . '' .
stefanski name assistant general manager tony dileo coach for the rest of the season .
dileo have a good reputation as a coach , spending time over the last two decade on the sixer ' bench as a assistant and in europe as a head coach .
but unless circumstance change dramatically , jordan -- who become close with stefanski while both be in new jersey earlier this decade -- will be the odds-on favorite to get the job permanantly .
many league exec still think quite highly of jordan , and none of the player who matter in washington throw jordan under the bus after he be fire .
cheek ' coaching move have frequently be criticize over the year , both in philadelphia and in portland .
but he lose he job this time not only because of xs and os , but because so many of the 76er ' player that blossom under he last season , include center sam dalembert , forward andre iguodala and guard lou william , struggle to get go this season .
and the move cheek make , like bench second-year forward thaddeus young and elevate guard willie green , have not produce enough dividend .
'' ed just be not see any progress , '' the source say , and stefanski expect more from a team that have sign free agent elton brand to a $ 82 million deal and re-signed core player iguodala and william for $ 80 million and $ 25 million , respectively .
'' we be not progress at the rate -lsb- stefanski -rsb- think we should , and he think it be time for a move , '' the source say .
yet stefanskus can not escape criticism , either .
bring brand in be the signing coup of the nba offseason , to be sure .
but in do that , stefanski change the team 's footprint .
the sixer be still a very good transition team .
but when the game slow down , have to cater to brand leave the lane clog .
last season , iguodala , young and william have drive room when philly run its halfcourt set , and dalembert show occasional decent low-post play .
but now , brand be the man in the paint , force everyone else out on the perimeter .
leave to fend for himself on the weakside , dalembert 's number have plummet , and william have just begin to play well .
brand be recover from the achille ' injury that keep he out of all but eight game last season with the clipper , but he be be slow by a bad hamstring , and he offensive number -lrb- 15.9 point , a career-low .436 from the floor -rrb- have be unspectactular .
no matter what the stats say , philly look and play slower this season .
and stefanski do not get a big-time shooter who could stretch the court and take pressure off of brand inside .
veteran donyell marshall and kareem rush , sign later in the summer by philly , do not strike much fear into oppose team .
the result be philly 's 93.3 score average , 28th in the league -lrb- only charlotte and oklahoma city have score 100 point fewer time than philadelphia 's six -rrb- , and .314 percentage behind the three-point line , 26th in the league .
'' everybody zone they , '' a eastern conference executive say saturday .
the sixer have just score one of they more impressive victory eight day ago , rally from a double-digit deficit in the second half to win on the road at detroit .
true , they have bad loss early to the bobcat and timberwolve , and lose a home-and-home to the cavalier on wednesday and friday .
but last we check , cleveland be 20-3 , owner of a 11-game win streak and the only remain undefeated team at home this season .
the cav be roll , and lose to they be no embarassment .
another league source with knowledge of the team 's thinking say saturday that the cleveland loss play no role in cheek 's firing .
cheek receive he second one-year contract extension in less than a year last september , take he through the 2009-10 season .
while stefanski do not hire cheek -lrb- that be former president billy king , whom stefanski replace early last season -rrb- , stefanski and cheek have quickly establish a solid , work relationship with one another .
cheek quickly acquiesce last year when stefanski ask he to give more time to the team 's younger player , get young and young vet rodney carney and william bigger minute .
the transition transform the team , as the 76er go on a 19-7 run last spring , turn opponent over and become deadly in transition .
they ride they hot streak into the playoff , where they stretch detroit to six game before succumb in the first round .
they be not a finish product , though , and it be no secret that brand be stefanski 's target , just as he would be king 's ultimate target .
after a brief dalliance with atlanta free agent josh smith , so stefanski clear as much cap room as possible , send carney and center calvin booth to minnesota , and then strike , get brand to spurn he former team , the clipper , as well as the warrior , for the sixer ' $ 80 million offer -- the '' philly max , '' as brand later call it .
after keep iguodala and william , all the heat be on cheek .
saturday , he become the latest coach -- one-sixth of the league 's head man already go in little more than five week -- to succumb to the pyre .
philadelphia 76er fire coach jim o'brien , hire maurice cheek .
may 23 , 2005 .
philadelphia 76er president and general manager billy king announce today that jim o'brien have be relieve of he duty as head coach of the philadelphia 76er .
no decision have be reach on o'brien staff at this time .
o'brien be hire as the 20th coach of the 76er on april 21 , 2004 and post a record of 43 - 39 in 2004 - 05 .
overall , in five season as a nba head coach , o'brien record a mark of 182 - 158 -lrb- . 535 -rrb- , include a record of 139 - 119 -lrb- . 539 -rrb- with the boston celtic from 2000 - 04 .
o'brien have serve on the coaching staff at seven different university , include head coaching position at wheeling jesuit college -lrb- 1982 - 87 -rrb- and university of dayton -lrb- 1989 - 94 -rrb- .
he own a 135 - 156 -lrb- . 464 -rrb- record at the collegiate level in 10 season as a head coach .
also today , philadelphia 76er president and general manager billy king announce that maurice cheek have be hire as the 21st head coach of the philadelphia 76er .
cheek arrive in philadelphia after three - plus season as head coach of the portland trail blazer .
he record a mark of 162 - 139 -lrb- . 538 -rrb- in portland , the fourth - highest win total in blazer history .
during he time in portland , the blazer reach the nba playoff twice , and he 2002 - 03 squad tie for second in the pacific division with a 50 - 32 record .
he join the blazer on june 27 , 2001 , after serve seven season as a assistant coach for the 76er .
cheek work under head coach john lucas -lrb- 1994 - 96 -rrb- , johnny davis -lrb- 1996 - 97 -rrb- , and larry brown -lrb- 1997 - 2001 -rrb- .
in 2000 - 01 under brown , cheek help guide the 76er to a record of 56 - 26 -lrb- . 683 -rrb- and a spot in the nba final .
cheek , 48 , log a impressive 15 - year nba career , spending 11 season in philadelphia .
the four - time all - star -lrb- 1983 , '86 , '87 , '88 -rrb- help guide the 76er to 10 playoff appearance , include a world championship in 1983 .
in 133 career playoff game , he average 14 . 4 point , 6 . 9 assist , and 3 . 4 rebound while shoot 51 . 2 percent from the field .
cheek be also a five - time nba all - defensive team honoree .
the native of chicago , ill . , he average 11 . 1 point , 6 . 7 assist and 2 . 1 steal in 1 , 101 career game while shoot 52 . 3 percent from the field and 79 . 3 percent from the charity stripe .
he retire in 1993 as the league all - time leader in steal , and be fifth on the career assist list at that time .
currently , he rank fourth in steal and eighth in assist all - time .
cheek have he no . 10 76er jersey retire on feb . 6 , 1995 .
the 1978 product of west texa state be a four - year starter and three - time team mvp in college .
he finish he collegiate career third on the buffalo all - time score list , average 16 . 8 point per game .
cheek be select in the second round of the 1978 nba draft -lrb- 36th overall pick -rrb- by the 76er .
maurice cheek become the fifth nba head coach to be fire this season , after the philadelphia 76er notify the former point guard of he dismissal saturday morning .
expect to contend for a division title after the addition of elton brand , the sixer -lrb- 9-14 -rrb- be instead last in the atlantic after lose eight of they last 10 game .
a 88-72 road loss to the cavalier in cleveland friday be apparently the last straw , though the team have not enjoy a win season under cheek in he previous three year at the helm .
they have be on the verge of a resurgence as december start , improve they record to 7-6 before hit a slump to fall to dead last in the division .
assistant general manager tony dileo be appoint interim coach as the sixer get ready for a game against washington saturday night .
cheek be 284-286 lifetime , include four year in portland .
tuesday , may 24 , 2005 .
up the coast ... ... ... the philly sixer can jim o'brien -lsb- who have be under fire all season -rsb- and quickly hire mo cheek .
mo run the sixer in the 1980s as they point guard .
he look to be a perfect coach for allen iverson .
really , this move have be in the make for quite some time .
the sixer have bug portland about talk to he about they head coaching job over the past 3 year .
after the blazer fire cheek ... ... ... it be only a matter of time before philly and cheek hook up again .
the sixer have disappoint this season , just 9-14 despite the inspired 2007-08 run -lrb- which culminate in take two of six against the piston -rrb- and the pick-up of dominant pivot elton brand over the summer .
if you do not know by now : you disappoint in the nba , you get can .
today , maurice cheek become the fifth coach fire within the first quarter of the season .
at this point , the emotional roller coaster of the nba season seem much more tell to any particular coach 's fortune than overall performance .
reggie theus , long in danger , pull off a huge upset of the laker on tuesday .
he be expect to stay safe bar a basketball apocolypse -lrb- or a bad loss to the knick tonight -rrb- .
marc iavaronus of memphis get a win at a opportune time this week .
sure , it be over the thunder ... but whatever .
-lrb- also , he owner be be cheap right now . -rrb- .
cheek have a opportunity to turn thing around this week with a home-and-home against the cavalier , a team many pick the sixer to eclipse this season .
the cavs win the set by a combined 24 point and have the league 's second-best record .
while fellow fire coach eddie jordan and sam mitchell seem assure of another top job as soon as next year , cheek surprisingly figure to land closer to the randy wittman/p carlesimo pile .
many feel cheek be the victim of a regime change and not he own failure in portland ; as such , he seem like a safe pick for the philly job -lrb- especially consider he history in the town -rrb- .
but although there have be change in the sixer ' front office -lrb- current gm ed stefanski do not hire cheek , in other word -rrb- , this sack be more tie to the team 's failure .
you fail 1.5 time in today 's nba , you might be do for a while cheek be smooth and well-liked , so he could get a gig soon enough .
but it seem more likely that he would get back on the bench as a assistant or move to a college program .
ncaa : improper gift , assistance give to athlete .
update : may 16 , 2005 , 6 : 03 pm et .
the ncaa notify ohio state on monday of nine alleged rule violation , include cash gift , improper academic assistance and failure of the school and coach to monitor the man basketball program .
seven of the violation involve man basketball , include a school booster allegedly give cash and academic help to a former player .
the other involve a booster allegedly give 500 to a football player , and a orthodontist provide free and discounted service to five woman basketball player .
ohio state previously say it be look into many of the allege violation , include a cash gift to a recruit from former basketball coach jim o'brien , who be fire after acknowledge the payment .
the allegation set forth in this report be consistent with what we expect , '' ohio state president karen holbrook say at a news conference .
the school must respond to the allegation by july 26 , and a infraction committee will hold a hearing before determine whether sanction be warrant , ncaa spokesman erik christianson say .
ohio state athletic department have face a series of ncaa investigation of its high - profile sport since the football team win the national championship in 2002 .
in december , the school impose a one - year postseason tournament ban on its man basketball team after o'brien acknowledge he give about 6 , 000 to recruit alex radojevic in 1999 .
o'brien , fire on june 8 , be seek up to 6 million in a breach - of - contract suit against ohio state .
the ncaa report say o'brien allegedly give radojevic the money through then - assistant coach paul biancardi .
o'brien and biancardi be accuse of act contrary to principle of ethical conduct by fail to report they involvement in ncaa rule violation , the report say .
we deny that we engage in any improper conduct under ncaa bylaw and legislation , '' say biancardi attorney , jame zeszutek .
biancardi have cooperate fully with ncaa investigator and be bar by the ncaa from publicly discuss the allegation , zeszutek say .
a message seek comment be leave with o'brien attorney .
former star run back maurice clarett and other former football player have allege that athlete receive money from booster , get academic credit for work they do do and receive no - show job at high salary .
the only mention of the football program in the ncaa report be a allegation that 500 be give to a football player , whose name be withhold .
last season , quarterback troy smith be suspend from the alamo bowl for accept money from a booster .
athletic director gene smith , who replace andy geiger a month ago , say the allegation in the ncaa report be less serious than speculation indicate .
what you see before you be what they find in football , '' he say , add he would be surprise if sanction be impose against the football team .
clarett be suspend for the 2003 season for lie to investigator during a ncaa probe of allegation that he receive improper benefit from a family friend .
the eastern conference standing have claim another coach , with philadelphia 76er head man maurice cheek join the ever-growing list of coach who be no longer employ .
the 2008-09 season be suppose to be a good one for the sixer , who claim the summer 's top free agent prize in elton brand and then assure that they big three would be together long-term by re-sign anre iguodala .
unfortunately , it have not play out that way to date .
currently sit at 9-14 on the season , the only thing stop philly from be complete bury in the standing be that so many eastern conference team be struggle , as well .
despite they poor start and they current three-game losing streak - likely to end tonight as the team take on the wizard - the sixer be still just two game in the loss column behind the eighth seed in the east .
cheek mark the third eastern conference head coach to get fire this season , follow in the footstep of the toronto raptor ' sam mitchell and the washington wizard ' eddie jordan .
cheek will be succeed by assistant gm tony dileo .
monday , may 23 , 2005 .
fire in philly ! !
sixer coach jim o'brien be fire today and take over will be former portland trailblazer coach ... ... ...
jim o'brien be terminate from he position as head man basketball coach at ohio state university follow the disclosure that he loan a recruit mother money .
o'brien sue , claim he be terminate without cause , and both party file motion for summary judgment .
the court of claim deny the motion because there be a factual dispute concern what constitute a material breach under the employment contract .
stephen a. smith have report that the philadelphia 76er have part way with coach maurice cheek .
the 76er have a record of 9-14 and have be expect to be a playoff team in the eastern conference .
with its acquisition of free agent elton brand the lineup seem to be become more solid especially in the middle .
but brand have not find he rhythm in the offense and he number have be disappointing .
some have say that instead of be the miss piece , that not unlike the phoenix sun , the team have miss its run and gun offense from last season .
when philly land a playoff spot near the bottom of the east 's pile this past spring and then surprise the piston by take the first two game from they in detroit before lose the next four straight , there be high hope for .500 + season and a upgrade in the playoff seeding .
with brand 's arrival the hope turn into what fan think be a reality .
never before in nba history have coach fall this early in the season in such number .
veteran player know all too well that the security they union have fight for have create a imbalance of power on team that do not have a proven winner in the coaching seat .
when a player be pay ten of million of dollar by a franchise , he be in the driver 's seat and if it come down to a contest between that player and a coach who have not win a title or have not win a title in a long while , it be not hard to know who have to go .
do not cry for cheek on the financial front he have a guarantee contract through the end of the 2009-2010 season .
agent say sixer to sign dalembert to six - year deal .
july 25 , 2005 , 12 : 18 be et .
samuel dalembert agree to a six year deal with the philadelphia 76er on saturday , he agent marc cornstein , tell espn . com .
cornstein refuse to disclose the amount of the contract , but it believe to be worth between 60 million to 70 million , base on previous negotiation .
the signing come just one day before dalembert be set to get on a plane and visit the atlanta hawk , who have the money under the cap to pay he a maximum five - year , 70 million offer .
of the three top big man on the market , dalembert be the center with the most upside .
he have great range and be athletic , with great shot block instinct .
he show he can be a volume rebounder and he offensive game be emerge .
he be very inconsistent at time this season , but in the playoff against the detroit piston , he play the part of a franchise center .
the sixer make a power move this offseason , firing head coach jim o'brien , who be a dalembert fan , and replace he with mo cheek , who be .
philly let it be know that o'brien be fire , in part , because the sixer be commit to dalembert .
this be the third deal for the sixer this summer .
they also reach six - year deal with kyle korver for 25 million and with willie green for about 20 million .
gary ross in negotiation to direct ` hunger game '' sequel ` catch fire '' .
now that ` the hunger game '' be a monster hit lionsgate be get ready for the sequel ` catch fire '' .
the three lead jennifer lawrence , josh hutcherson , and liam hemsworth be already sign on to appear in the sequel and , no doubt , the third film ` mockingjay '' as well .
the biggest player who doesn '' t have a deal in place be director gary ross and the hollywood reporter and collider be report that he be in negotiation with lionsgate to return .
hit the jump for more detail and how ` catch fire '' could face a huge delay .
allegedly , ross be pay 3 million to direct ` the hunger game '' plus five per cent on the back end .
with no deal in place for ross to direct future film in the series , he be in a good position to ask for more money .
there be no doubt that ross be instrumental in make ` the hunger game '' a huge success .
it be he direction that many critic applaud and bring the film down to earth , as oppose to the bloated spectacle it could have become in the wrong hand .
lionsgate can '' t hide that they don '' t have the money , but they have to spend it wisely to ensure the quality of the franchise continue and ross could get a good deal out of it .
of course , if ross want too much money lionsgate could easily give he the flick and hire a new director similar to the ` harry potter '' and ` twilight '' film .
consider lionsgate recently absorb summit and they executive -lrb- master of the ` twilight '' film -rrb- into team lionsgate ; a change in director could be likely .
another tough challenge face lionsgate with the production of ` catch fire '' be the possibility of delay due to the schedule of lawrence .
` catch fire '' have a release date of 22 november 2013 with production start later in the year .
lawrence be set to star in the sequel to ` x - man : first class '' that could go into production soon if fox decide to exercise lawrence '' s option to do the sequel .
the ` x - man : first class '' sequel already have a director with matthew vaughn return and fox might rush it into production to capitalise on lawrence '' s star power .
the hunger game sequel be in negotiation .
04 / 04 / 2012 .
accord to the hollywood reporter , director of the hunger game , gary ross be currently in the negotiation stage to direct the sequel to the hunger game .
in term of figure , the hunger game have already bring in over 363 million .
apparently , lionsgate would like a a november 2013 release date for the hunger game sequel .
the main cast ; .
- jennifer lawrence .
- liam hemsworth .
- and josh hutcherson will all be return for the sequel !
chris weitz be in negotiation to helm '' new moon , '' the sequel to summit entertainment 's vampire breakout '' twilight . '' .
weitz come on board to helm the second installment in stephenie meyer 's four-book series after summit and '' twilight '' director catherine hardwicke fail to reach a deal on the new movie .
the weitz move prompt a carefully calibrate campaign of reassurance on the part of creator .
meyer pen a letter that seek to calm fan nervous about the midstream switch .
'' i be sad that catherine be not continue on with we for new moon , ' she write in a letter on she web site , but then note that , with weitz .
'' torch and pitchfork be not go to be necessary . '' .
the director '' be excite by the story and eager to keep the movie as close to the book as possible , '' she write .
'' he be also aware of you , the fan , and want to keep you all extremely happy .
it be rare for the director of a successful first picture not to continue on with the sequel .
there have be conflict report about hardwicke 's departure , with some note creative and other difference .
summit have say it be a matter of scheduling .
weitz have not helm a girl-oriented project before but have be involve in movie that encompass element feature in '' twilight , '' produce the teen-aimed coming-of-age tale '' american pie '' and direct the fantasy adventure '' the golden compass . '' .
still , the director be take few chance .
'' i promise to remain responsive to you hope and fear , '' he write in he own letter to fan saturday .
'' i thank you for this opportunity and for you faith . '' .
weitz say he have be '' in a whirlwind romance '' with the series over the past few day , and , in a particularly careful phrasing , say he be '' very grateful to have receive -lrb- meyer 's -rrb- permission to protect new moon ' in its translation from the page to the screen . '' .
both weitz 's and meyer 's letter represent rare attempt to communicate with fan on issue often leave mostly to the industry , and speak both to the intense insider interest of fan as well as the importance of that group to the franchise 's success .
summit a week ago have face a public-relations challenge when some fan bulletin board begin to worry about hardwicke 's departure .
robert pattinson and kristen stewart will star in '' moon , '' while melissa rosenberg be write the picture which , like the first , center on the ordinary teenager bella and the vampire edward but add jacob , a werewolf character who figure less prominently in the first film .
the budget for '' moon '' be expect to be slightly higher than the first in the franchise , with a release likely for late 2009 or early 2010 .
the hunger game director gary ross still in negotiation for the sequel .
publish : 2012 - 04 - 04 11 : 47 : 35 .
during the promotional period for the hunger game everyone involve make sure to note how different the franchise be from twilight .
while it may have seem like a silly thing to do give twilight success , but the truth be that comparison be make male audience a bit shaky about the film , as that demographic do want to spend two and a half hour watch a tween romance -lrb- and hunger game be definitely not that -rrb- .
the film obviously be hurt by this strategy , as it go on to shatter record and become the third highest gross open weekend title of all time .
but while the story of the hunger game may have no comparison to twilight , it turn out that action behind the scene may duplicate it .
while the first movie be a huge success , thr be say that director gary ross be still in negotiation to direct the sequel , catch fire .
the star of the film - the one that survive , anyway - be already contractually obligate to appear in the second movie , but thing have be go to great on the filmmaker side .
the trade say that ross negotiation with lionsgate the first time around be so hot either , a inside source call it a terrible experience , '' as the studio do usually pay seasoned - filmmaker fee to even seasoned filmmaker like ross . ?
because of the hunger game big box office number , ross be expect a raise for he work on the movie -lrb- he be give 3 million upfront and 5 on the backend with he first deal -rrb- but it unclear if the studio will give it to he .
much like the twilight franchise , or even harry potter , it entirely possible that lionsgate will choose not to pay ross and instead go with another filmmaker who be demand less money .
a script have already be write for catch fire , from simon beaufoy , but ross have not yet have the chance to revise it .
the one big card that ross have in he back pocket be that the hunger game be better receive than any of the twilight film , which could convince the brass to try and keep some consistency .
whether it will play in he favor be still a unknown at this point .
so what do you think ?
should ross be bring back for the next movie or should they go with someone else vision ?
leave you thought , idea and desire in the comment section below .
it be official : chris weitz be take over the director 's chair for the '' twilight '' sequel '' new moon . '' .
'' twilight '' author stephenie meyer confirm the news on she official website saturday morning in a post design to calm the rise anguish among fan who love the first film adaptation .
after bid a fond farewell to '' twilight '' director catherine hardwicke , meyer go on to praise weitz and to let fan know that '' torch and pitchfork be not go to be necessary . '' .
on the one hand , weitz have show he skill at adapt popular modern novel for the screen -- '' about a boy , '' from the nick hornby novel , win weitz and co-scripter paul weitz and peter hedge a oscar nomination for best adapt screenplay .
on the other hand , weitz also direct last year 's '' the golden compass , '' which be a expensive mess that fail to capture the fan base of the book .
director gary ross still in negotiation for hunger game sequel , catch fire ; release date may be in jeopardy .
post 1 year , 160 day ago -lsb- download on 2 october 2013 -rsb- .
as i say many time in my review , gary ross ` direction be the strongest element of the hunger game .
but for lionsgate , the movie '' s ability to make a crazy amount of money be the strongest element of the hunger game .
now , thr be report that ross and the studio be lock in tense negotiation over he return to direct the sequel , catch fire .
lead actor jennifer lawrence , josh hutcherson , and liam hemsworth be already sign for catch fire -lrb- and i imaging they '' re also sign for the third installment , mockingjay -rrb- , but ross doesn '' t have a deal in place .
he be pay 3 million for co - write and direct the film plus 5 percent on the back - end .
unsurprisingly , he would like a raise on the sequel .
hit the jump for more include why catch fire might not make its november 22 , 2013 release date .
accord to thr , negotiation on the first film be tough because ross already have a successful , oscar - nominate movie to he name -lrb- seabiscuit -rrb- , but lionsgate have never pay a hefty filmmaker salary before -lrb- hunger game be the highest - budget project in the studio '' s history -rrb- .
now that hunger game will undoubtedly be one of the highest - gross film of the year , ross have some leverage , but current franchise trend aren '' t move in he favor .
other major franchise have show no hesitation in constantly switch out director .
after all , it '' be the title that draw people into the theater , not the filmmaker .
harry potter go through four director as do twilight , and marvel have basically make it a policy never to rehire any of they director .
the studio '' s highest priority be make sure to keep the franchise flow without delay , and prolonged negotiation with ross may cause a delay .
there '' s also the add problem of ross take time to revise simon beaufoy ` be script for catch fire .
lionsgate be also face a issue with the sequel '' s schedule november 22 , 2013 release date .
fox could stymie lionsgate '' s plan by exercise lawrence '' s option to do the sequel for x - man : first class .
source tell thr that fox '' s option would take priority over lionsgate '' s .
lionsgate be aim to get catch fire into production by the fall , but fox already have they director ready to go -lrb- matthew vaughn be sign to return for first class 2 -rrb- .
however , first class 2 doesn '' t have a release date .
ross '' do have a few counter against lionsgate .
first , he '' be a known quantity and have establish a relationship with the cast and crew .
he also deliver a critically well - receive movie .
grant , the hunger game would have crush at the box office no matter what , but the positive response indicate that he '' s now in higher demand for other property .
it '' be a impressive boost for a director who hadn '' t helm a project since seabiscuit in 2003 .
despite the acrimony , a source tell thr that the two side will eventually make a deal .
ultimately , it will be difficult , and yet everybody will do the sane thing , which be to work it out , '' say one .
'' everybody will end up unhappy in they own way .
it '' be just the nature of the beast . '' .
the alternative be to throw 24 director into a arena and have they fight to the death .
and if you '' be have trouble imagine other director take over the franchise , take a look at these fake poster for the hunger game .
summit entertainment announce today that filmmaker chris weitz have be hire to direct the second film in the studio 's twilight film franchise .
the film , new moon , be base on the second book in author stephenie meyer 's blockbuster book series .
the announcement be make by erik feig , summit 's president of production .
weitz , a academy award -lrb- r -rrb- nominate writer , director and producer , have a proven track record work with a broad range of material deal with youth orient character , fantasy and action .
as such , he have the potential to bring alive in new moon the dimension and depth that fan will demand in the next installment .
feig state , '' we love stephenie meyer 's fantastic twilight series .
think long and hard about how to turn new moon into the amazing movie we know it will be , and work with stephenie meyer to find the right candidate , we be thrill to announce chris weitz as director of the film .
chris very much understand the world of new moon and have the skill set require to bring the book to glorious life as a movie .
we think he will be a excellent steward of stephenie meyer 's vision . '' .
'' i be honor to have be entrust with shepherd new moon from the page to the screen , '' say weitz .
'' the extraordinary world that stephenie have create have million of fan , and it will be my duty to protect on they behalf the character , theme and story they love .
this be not a task to be take lightly , and i will put every effort into realize a beautiful film to stand alongside a beautiful book . '' .
weitz previously pen about a boy , which lead to a academy award nomination for best adapt screenplay in 2002 , and adapt and direct the golden compass -lrb- 2007 -rrb- , which be nominate for two academy award and win the academy award for best visual effect .
additionally , weitz co-write the 1998 animated film antz and go on to produce the major box office success american pie and executive produce the film 's two theatrical sequel .
weitz also produce in good company star dennis quaid and topher grace and executive produce american dreamz star hugh grant , denni quaid and mandy moore .
in new moon , bella swan -lrb- kristen stewart -rrb- be devastate by the abrupt departure of she vampire love , edward cullen -lrb- robert pattinson -rrb- but she spirit be rekindle by she grow friendship with the irresistible jacob black .
suddenly she find herself draw into the world of the werewolf , ancestral enemy of the vampire , and find she loyalty test .
production on new moon be schedule to begin in the coming month and the studio be plan to release the film towards the end of 2009 or early 2010 .
feig will oversee new moon for the studio along with summit entertainment 's director of production gillian bohrer .
weitz be represent by wma and by alex kohner of morris , yorn , barne and levine .
about the twilight film series .
the twilight film series star robert pattinson and kristen stewart and tell the story of 17-year-old bella swan who move to the small town of fork , washington to live with she father , and become draw to edward cullen , a pale , mysterious classmate who seem determine to push she away .
but neither can deny the attraction that pull they together ... even when edward confide that he and he family be vampire .
the action-packed , modern day vampire love story and blockbuster success the first film in the series entitle twilight be release in theatre on november 21st gross $ 69.6 million domestically during its first weekend .
to date the film have gross over $ 142 million domestically .
about summit entertainment llc .
summit entertainment be a worldwide theatrical motion picture development , financing , production and distribution studio .
the studio handle all aspect of marketing and distribution for both its own internally developed motion picture as well as acquire picture .
summit entertainment , llc also represent international sale for both its own slate and third party product .
summit entertainment , llc plan to release 10 to 12 film annually .
source summit entertainment .
gary ross in negotiation to direct the hunger game sequel catch fire .
april 4 , 2012 .
despite currently be the director behind the # movie in the world , the future of gary ross involvement with the hunger game franchise remain uncertain .
the hollywood reporter say ross be in negotiation with lionsgate to return as director for the sequel , catch fire - - and the deal likely hinge on money .
thr say ross , a seasoned director , accept a relatively low 3 million salary for direct -lrb- and co - write -rrb- the hunger game , but be ask for a significant raise for catch fire .
despite thr article , which paint negotiation as tense , ross have speak very confidently about he involvement in catch fire - - even mention casting idea and film plan - - and it seem likely he will officially be sign on as director .
meanwhile , the film main star , include jennifer lawrence , josh hutcherson , and liam hemsworth , be all sign on for the rest of the movie in the series .
several additional new character will need to be cast before catch fire can begin film later this year , however .
chris weitz , who direct '' the golden compass , '' be negotiate to direct the cinematic sequel to '' twilight , '' industry source say .
while summit entertainment will not confirm weitz be attach to the vampire series , the hollywood reporter say friday he be the current candidate to direct '' new moon . '' .
'' moon , '' like '' twilight , '' be base on the four-book series write by stephenie meyer .
the movie follow a romance between a vampire and a mortal woman .
'' moon '' will be adapt for the big screen by melissa rosenberg with robert pattinson and kristen bell in the lead role .
'' twilight '' director catherine hardwicke be unable to reach a deal to direct the sequel and she departure have be the topic of various rumor .
the reporter say '' moon , '' which be expect to have a larger budget than its cinematic predecessor , have be tentatively tab with a late 2009 or early 2010 release date .
gary ross back in talk to direct the hunger game sequel catch fire .
april 9 , 2012 .
despite report last week that say gary ross would definitely not be return to direct the hunger game sequel , catch fire , it seem he will be back at the negotiating table with lionsgate this week .
the hollywood reporter say ross be set to meet with lionsgate official on monday to resume negotiation .
accord to thr , two major sticking point be salary -lrb- ross apparently want a raise -rrb- and schedule , with the hunger game set to begin film in august .
that in part to accomodate jennifer lawrence january start date for film the x - man : first class sequel , a project that legally and contractually hold priority for the actress over catch fire .
lionsgate be also under pressure to meet a previously announce november 2013 release date for catch fire .
the majority of fan be outspoken last week in they disappointment that ross would not return for catch fire .
some launch the gary ross be boss campaign to show support , a petition have be circulate twitter , and it will be the top discussion subject on monday night episode of the hg fireside chat podcast .
what do you think about ross return -lrb- or possibly not -rrb- for catch fire ?
sound off in the comment below !
there be a new dawn for twilight .
day after catherine hardwicke be oust , despite have direct the vampire romance satisfactorily enough to pull in $ 140 million worth of business from fanggirl and average moviegoer alike , the golden compass director chri weitz be close to sign on for the blockbuster 's sequel .
follow up on some recent deadline hollywood scoop , ew.com report that weitz have be tap by summit entertainment to helm new moon , base on the second book in stephenie meyer 's phenomenon-inducing franchise .
'' he be the quality-of-life-choice , '' a source say , perhaps refer to buzz that hardwicke , while ultratalented , be rough to work with , while weitz , who also codirect american pie and score a oscar nod for copenn about a boy , be know to be a pretty genial chap .
summit say that no deal have be sign yet , but the official announcement could be come as soon as this weekend .
the studio want new moon in theater and edward-loving butt in the seat in 2010 , but have say it will not rush production before the script -lrb- the initial draft of which hardwicke supposedly have problem with -rrb- be the best it can be .
'' this be not a rush job , '' summit ceo rob friedman tell the lo angele time ' big picture blog .
'' the movie only get release when it be finish i would like it to be next year , but we be not go to put out a bad movie to hit a release date . '' .
hunger game director gary ross in tough negotiation for sequel .
8 : 00 be pdt 4 / 4 / 2012 .
despite the movie box - office record , the director not lock up as lionsgate could pull a twilight - style switcheroo over money .
now that the hunger game be a hit with more than 363 million in the till , the question be whether writer - director gary ross will return for the next installment in the lucrative lionsgate franchise .
unlike star jennifer lawrence , josh hutcherson and liam hemsworth , ross be not sign for a sequel .
and negotiation for he to do the first movie be a terrible experience , '' say a source with knowledge of the discussion , because ross be a seasoned filmmaker -lrb- pleasantville , seabiscuit -rrb- and lionsgate not accustom to pay seasoned - filmmaker fee .
he end up take a relatively low 3 million to write -lrb- with billy ray and novelist suzanne collin -rrb- and direct .
but he will collect a very remunerative 5 percent of backend .
source say ross , 55 , would like a significant raise for a second hunger game , but lionsgate do kick off negotiation with he until about three week before the first film march 23 opening .
by then , with tracking suggest a huge opening weekend , ross and he caa rep be in no hurry to bargain .
lionsgate have a script from simon beaufoy -lrb- slumdog millionaire -rrb- that ross have yet to revise .
the studio be in a rush to start the next film in the fall , though fox might upset lionsgate plan by exercise its option on lawrence to start another x - man movie first .
-lrb- fox option would trump lionsgate hold on lawrence , say source . -rrb- .
add urgency : lionsgate already have book a november 2013 release for hunger game : catch fire .
with other big literary property , director have be see as fungible .
warner bro . entrust the first two harry potter film to chris columbus before employ a host of other filmmaker , and summit memorably do not invite catherine hardwicke back to direct the second twilight , despite the success of the first installment .
-lrb- and summit rob friedman and patrick wachsberger now run lionsgate film division . -rrb- .
but ross will argue that he film be much better receive than any in the twilight series , with a a cinemascore and a 85 percent fresh rating on rotten tomato in addition to huge worldwide box office .
will contend that the movie will play longer and stronger in theater and that he could direct he pick of other movie should lionsgate refuse to pony up .
-lrb- but to state the obvious , hunger game bi - gender story line appeal to a wider audience than twilight . -rrb- .
it always striking when a giant hit lead to anger and hurt feeling in hollywood , but that seem to be the case here .
nonetheless , source involve with the franchise be bet that ross will return .
ultimately , it will be difficult , and yet everybody will do the sane thing , which be to work it out , '' say one .
everybody will end up unhappy in they own way .
it just the nature of the beast . '' .
rumor to be the front runner earlier in the week , entertainment weekly have now confirm that chris weitz will direct the sequel to twilight , new moon , replace catherine hardwicke .
hardwicke reportedly clash with summit entertainment during twilight 's production and ew say weitz land the new moon gig because he have a solid relationship with the studio , he be consider easy to work with and have experience with special effect .
in new moon , the second novel in stephenie meyer 's young-adult series , bella -lrb- kristen stewart -rrb- recover from the vampire attack that almost claim she life .
she look to celebrate she birthday with edward -lrb- robert pattinson -rrb- and he family , however , a minor accident during the festivity result in bella 's blood be shed , a sight that prove too intense for the cullen .
they decide to leave the town of fork , washington for bella and edward 's sake melissa rosenberg be write the screenplay .
weitz co-direct american pie , down to earth and about a boy with he brother paul .
last year he helm the golden compass , base on the philip pullman novel , which do not impress north american audience but be a hit overseas .
new moon be tentatively schedule to open november 20 , 2009 .
gary ross catch fire negotiation reportedly continue .
post : 04 / 9 / 2012 8 : 33 be update : 04 / 9 / 2012 8 : 33 be .
gary ross have not depart the hunger game . '' .
accord to thr , ross will resume negotiate with lionsgate about return for the game sequel catch fire at some point on monday .
it have be quite a three day for ross .
on friday , indiewire blog the playlist exclusively report that the director have step away from negotiation with lionsgate , not because of any monetary strife , but because ross want to do something different for he next film .
that be counter by deadline . com nikki finke and mike fleming , who write on saturday that ross have step away , and that lionsgate want he to return but for a reasonable price .
ross be reportedly pay 3 million to write and direct the hunger game . '' .
will also earn five percent of the backend gross , a significant number since game have already accumulate 459 million around the globe .
per thr , the negotiation between the two party be delicate , '' but a deal could get do soon .
after all , catch fire begin shooting in august with a script from oscar winner simon beaufoy -lrb- slumdog millionaire -rrb- .
well '' new moon '' have a new director .
and it be a man .
chris weitz will take on the sequel to '' twilight '' .
chris weitz the director of '' the golden compass '' and best know for he work with he brother paul on '' american pie '' be step up to do '' new moon '' .
weitz have a good relationship with summit studio and be easy to work with .
he also have experience with special effect .
of course though it be not official yet december 14th the announcement will be make for the hire decision .
just in time to start the pre-production detail for this highly anticipate sequel .
'' twilight '' have gross more than 141 million already .
gary ross remain in negotiation to direct the hunger game sequel .
wednesday , 04 april 2012 10 : 30 .
after open to the third - biggest domestic debut weekend of all time , legitimate pop culture phenomenon the hunger game have gross 368 . 0 million globally .
it do so in under two week of theatrical release .
so with by far the biggest hit in its history , lionsgate be naturally keen to continue the series with catch fire , the already announce adaptation of suzanne collin novel .
but apparently it not a guarantee that gary ross , who co - write and direct the hunger game , will be back for another round .
lionsgate have long be open about its intent to turn collin bestsell young adult novel into a franchise , one that would spin four movie out of the literary trilogy .
last year , the studio stake out a november 22 , 2013 release date for catch fire and pursued oscar win slumdog millionaire screenwriter simon beaufoy to pen the script .
in january , word emerge that beaufoy be indeed at work on catch fire , and at the time , word be that he be do so under ross supervision , with the director set to return .
since then , it be generally accept that ross would take another trip to panem , particularly once the hunger game receive a overwhelmingly positive critical response and , you know , make dump truck of money .
ross have by no means be set to direct , however .
accord to the hollywood reporter , he have yet to formally sign on , and negotiation might just be proceed with some difficulty , if the process on the hunger game be any indicator .
the report cite a anonymous source familiar with ross negotiation last time , who cite it as , a terrible experience . '' .
lionsgate , unaccustomed to deal with director as establish as the four time oscar nominee and pleasantville and seabiscuit director , reportedly play some hardball with ross , who end up be pay 3 million .
that relatively low figure be no doubt help by the 5 of the film backend profit .
have deliver a critically acclaimed , zeitgeist - tap event movie , ross be doubtless expect a bigger figure for catch fire , but will lionsgate pay it ?
probably .
but maybe not .
lionsgate recently buy summit entertainment , the distributor behind the twilight franchise , mean that the lionsgate film division be now under the auspices of summit patrick wachsberger and rob friedman .
the revolving door of director on the twilight series have some fan worry that a similar policy might be carry out with the hunger game sequel .
negotiation with ross do actually begin until roughly three week before the first film release , at which point it be obvious that the film would be successful , give no small amount of leverage to the director , who co - write the screenplay with collin and billy ray .
while ross be sign on to multiple film , star jennifer lawrence , josh hutcherson , and liam hemsworth be all on board for the duration of the series .
but that not say there no potential issue there either .
the unanimously - praise lawrence be also contractually obligate to reprise she role as mystique in a sequel to last year x - man : first class .
she commitment there apparently supersede she hunger game contract , mean that if fox go ahead with another x - man at a inconvenient moment , it could complicate the catch fire schedule .
of course , all of this could be conjecture or , at the very least , over - analysis .
let not get hysterical just yet , folk .
the last five day have be a wild rollercoaster ride for '' twilight '' fan , as the film 's director be tell she service would no longer be require for the sequel , fuel speculation over she replacement , follow by a rumor about a suppose successor .
now , it seem , a battle be go on between a studio say there be no news to report and a entertainment magazine claim chris weitz be get behind the '' twilight '' steer wheel .
'' there will be a new director atop the twilight ' franchise : and he will be a man , '' entertainment weekly 's '' hollywood insider '' be report .
'' source tell ew.com that summit entertainment be about to hire chris weitz -lrb- the golden compass ' -rrb- as the shepherd for new moon , ' the second installment of stephenie meyer 's best-selling twilight ' series . '' .
although weitz be indeed offer the high-profile gig , the '' american pie '' filmmaker have spend much of the week contemplate he participation .
accord to '' twilight '' studio summit entertainment , the deal remain unconsummated .
'' no , it be not official , '' a studio representative tell mtv news on thursday evening -lrb- december 11 -rrb- .
'' we be not confirm anything at this point .
he be not sign on as the director . '' .
'' we be not confirm , '' echo a second representative .
whether ew be hear incorrectly from they source or the studio be just bide time until it can make a proper announcement , this much seem certain : catherine hardwicke be move on to future project that will not involve teenage vampire , and a man be likely to take she place .
twilighter have spend much of the week argue with each other - and attempt to form protest and letter-writing campaign - while debate whether they should speak out against the change to they beloved franchise .
whether they will warm to weitz be anyone 's guess , but at least the filmmaker can always take solace in the fact that the fanbase similarly rebel against kristen stewart and robert pattinson when they originally sign up for the film that would make they superstar .
gary ross will not direct hunger game sequel .
filmmaker say he can commit to production schedule for catch fire .
hunger game director gary ross will not helm the adaptation of catch fire , the second book in suzanne collin trilogy , the lo angele time report .
accord to the newspaper source , ross be in negotiation to direct the sequel , but be not able to come to a agreement over scheduling and compensation .
despite recent speculation in the media , and after difficult but sincere consideration , i have decide not to direct catch fire , '' ross say in a statement .
as a writer and a director , i simply not have the time i need to write and prep the movie i would have want to make because of the fix and tight production schedule . '' .
the director deny report that he talk with the studio , lionsgate , hit a snag .
contrary to what have be report , negotiation with lionsgate have not be problematic .
they have also be very understanding of I through this difficult decision . '' .
the second film in the hunger game trilogy be schedule to hit theater in november of 2013 , allow the studio and creator a limited window to prepare before production would need to begin .
the golden compass director chri weitz be expect to direct new moon , the sequel to the hugely successful film twilight .
accord to ew , '' weitz be best-known for he work with he brother paul .
the two direct and produce american pie and then be nominate for a academy award for best screenplay for about a boy , which they also co-direct .
chris ' first solo direct gig , the golden compass , do not do well stateside but be a hit internationally . '' .
it be announce earlier this week that twilight director catherine hardwicke and the movie studio summit entertainment be parting way .
gary ross not direct hunger game sequel .
april 7th , 2012 12 : 30pm edt .
moviemaker gary ross have reportedly pull out of negotiation to direct a sequel to the hunger game .
ross , who have wow film fan and critic alike with he adaptation of the first book in author suzanne collin trilogy , have officially decide not to return , accord to the playlist .
speculation about he successor for catch fire have begin with the hunger game second - unit director steven soderbergh the early front - runner to take over the role .
wladimir klitschko defend he ibf heavyweight crown by stop hasim rahman in the seventh round at sap arena on saturday .
klitschko , who have not lose in more than four year , hit the shorter rahman at will throughout , and after land a left-right-left combination against the cornered american , the referee step in to end the contest rahman do not appear upset .
klitschko have knock down rahman in the previous round with successive left hook .
the technical knockout in klitchsko 's sixth defense of the ibf belt - and third this year - improve the ukrainian-born fighter to 52-3 with 46 ko .
rahman , the two-time heavyweight champion who step in as a replacement opponent last month , struggle to get inside the taller klitschko 's reach , and drop to 45-7-2 .
the fighter start out fast and light on they foot , but it soon become apparent that rahman be struggle to overcome the 31/2 31/2 height advantage enjoy by the champion .
rahman have to lean in drastically , and klitschko easily fend off he punch .
rahman do little more than lean on the rope for a time and guard he face as klitschko seek he opening .
rahman look reinvigorate in the fourth round , use he whole torso to make ambitious attack , often connect with klitschko 's body .
but he rarely land blow above klitschko 's shoulder , and the consequence be clear when klitschko drop rahman early in the sixth with two hard left to the side of he head .
rahman get up but spend the remainder of the round in the corner , take a sustained beating .
another flurry at the opening of the seventh end rahman 's challenge .
klitschko also retain the minor wbo and ibo belt .
klitschko be originally schedule to face alexander povetkin -lrb- 16-0 -rrb- , but the russian pull out with a ankle injury .
rahman , who win the wbc and ibf belt from lennox lewis in 2001 and the vacant wbc belt in 2005 , arrive in germany on monday and declare he be in top shape .
on the undercard , former heavyweight champion riddick bowe make a modest comeback with a eighth-round decision over germany 's gene pukall .
it be just the third fight in a decade for the 41-year-old american and he first in three year .
bowe -lrb- 45-1 , 33 ko -rrb- have be train in germany since september in a effort to get he stamina up and he weight down .
the work pay off in the ring , where he keep up with the 33-year-old pukall -lrb- 14-13-2 , 12ko -rrb- and best he with a stream of careful head shot .
wladimir klitschko stop tony thompson in 6th round to retain world heavyweight title .
wladimir klitschko stop tony thompson in the sixth round to retain he wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belt saturday night .
the 36 - year - old champion klitschko , 58 - 3 with 51 knockout , floor thompson with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american never recover .
the ukrainian champion drop thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam william give the challenger a standing count before stop the fight .
in 2008 , klitschko stop thompson in the 11th round .
thompson , who be the mandatory challenger nominate by the ibf , drop to 36 - 3 .
mannheim , germany -lrb- sport network -rrb- - wladimir klitschko retain three heavyweight title belt by score a dominant seventh-round technical knockout of hasim rahman saturday night .
the 32-year-old klitschko -lrb- 52-3 , 46 ko -rrb- win he 10th consecutive bout by flooring rahman -lrb- 45-7-2 -rrb- once before referee tony week stop the fight 44 seconds into the seventh round .
in a fight that be one-sided from the start , klitschko retain he ibf , wbo and ibo version of the heavyweight crown .
klitschko , who be come off a 11th-round knockout of tony thompson in july , land 178 punch to just 30 for rahman .
klitschko use he jab to he advantage , score consistently , and by the sixth round the 36-year-old rahman , a former heavyweight champion , look tired and clearly beat .
in the sixth klitschko land a pair of left hook to floor a off-balanced rahman , who spend most of he time during the round on the rope .
in fact , klitschko land 28 of he 68 punch throw during the round , while rahman connect on just 1-of-16 over those three minute .
with rahman get pound in the corner early in the seventh , week call a halt to the fight .
klitschko 's ukrainian brother , vitalus , be the current wbc heavyweight champion , but the sibling have rule out fight each other .
wladimir klitschko have hold at least one major heavyweight belt since beat chris byrd for the ibf version in april 2006 .
on the undercard , former heavyweight champion riddick bowe -lrb- 43-1 -rrb- score a eighth-round unanimous decision over gene pukall -lrb- 14-13-2 -rrb- .
the 41-year-old bowe be fight for the first time since 2005 and step into the ring for a professional bout for only the third time since 1996 .
bowe be most remembered for he three fight with evander holyfield and two tough bout with andrew golota .
wladimir klitschko stop tony thompson in 6th round to retain world heavyweight belt .
july 08 , 2012 .
wladimir klitschko stop tony thompson in the sixth round to keep a comfortable hold on he wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title saturday night .
the 36 - year - old champion klitschko , 58 - 3 with 51 knockout , floor thompson with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american never recover .
the ukrainian champion drop thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam william give the challenger a standing count before stop the fight at 2 : 56 .
thompson be not so easy to box .
be satisfied , '' klitschko say .
in 2008 , klitschko stop thompson in the 11th round .
wladimir klitschko -lrb- 52-3 , 46 ko -rrb- blast a sluggish hasim rahman -lrb- 45-7-2 , 36 ko -rrb- in mannheim , germany on saturday night to retain the ibf , wbo and ibo world heavyweight title .
after flooring rahman in the sixth round with a left-right combo klitschko waste little time wrap it up in the seventh with a big left-right-left series that lead to the referee step in and stop the fight at the 2:15 mark .
rahman , a former heavyweight champion who shock the world when he floor lennox lewis in 2001 for the title , show absolutely no sign of life against kiltschko on saturday .
the final number show klitschko landing 178 of 369 punch throw while rahman connect on just 30 of 207 punch throw .
wladimir klitschko retain belt .
update : july 7 , 2012 , 10 : 04 pm et .
wladimir klitschko stop tony thompson in the sixth round to keep a comfortable hold on he wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title saturday night .
the 36 - year - old champion klitschko , 58 - 3 with 51 knockout , floor thompson with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american never recover .
the ukrainian champion drop thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam william give the challenger a standing count before stop the fight at 2 : 56 .
thompson be not so easy to box .
be satisfied , '' klitschko say .
in 2008 , klitschko stop thompson in the 11th round .
thompson , the mandatory challenger nominate by the ibf , fall to 36 - 3 -lrb- 24 ko -rrb- .
after the fight , klitschko lead the crowd of 22 , 000 in sign happy birthday to trainer emanuel steward , who turn 68 on saturday .
tony thompson be very hard to hit , '' steward say .
tony be watch wladimir right hand all night . '' .
a cagey opening round be follow by a scrappy second , as klitschko twice wrestle thompson to the floor .
thompson briefly step up he cautious tactic when land a leave to klitschko face in the third .
klitschko finally land a long , straight right in the fifth , and the round end with thompson struggle on the rope .
the champion corner thompson toward the end of the sixth , and land punch to the head though no single blow appear to cause serious damage .
i get catch but be ok , '' thompson say in the ring .
he strong and he world heavyweight champion for a reason . '' .
klitschko extend the domination of the heavyweight rank he share with he older brother , vitalus .
vitalus be in he brother corner as usual , and act as cheerleader in the third round , urge on fan in the soccer stadium when the first chant of klitschko ! klistchko ! stir .
the elder klitschko will defend he wbc title against manuel charr of germany in moscow on sept . 8 .
wladimir klitschko defend he ibf heavyweight crown with ease after stop american hasim rahman after 44 seconds of the seventh round of they contest at the sap arena in germany .
wladimir klitschko retain title stop thompson in six round .
publish : 22 : 07 gmt , 7 july 2012 .
update : 22 : 07 gmt , 7 july 2012 .
wladimir klitschko stop tony thompson in the sixth round to retain he wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belt on saturday .
klitschko put thompson on the canvas with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american never recover .
the ukrainian champion drop thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam william give the challenger a standing count before stop the fight .
klitschko finish the fight five round sooner than when knock out thompson in the 11th of they first title fight in 2008 .
the 36 - year - old champion klitschko improve to 58 - 3 -lrb- 51 ko -rrb- .
thompson , who be the mandatory challenger nominate by the ibf , fall to 36 - 3 -lrb- 24 ko -rrb- .
heavyweight champion , wladimir klitschko , 53-3 , 47 ko 's , easily dismantle former 2-time heavyweight champion , hasim rahman , 45-7-2 , 36 ko 's , in the seventh round .
rahman never give himself a chance , stand on the outside and not ever get any aggression go .
two thing be very apparent in this fight .
one , rahman have nothing left , and two , wlad be as good as he be ever be .
throw out the fact that '' the rock '' be not what he once be .
nobody have ever dominate he this way , and really neutralize he from the start of the fight .
klitschko use he great jab and distance fight to stay out of harm 's way and it be hard to think of any heavyweight outside of david haye give he any run for he money .
chris arreola have be name and hype incredibly but would probably give a effort before be stop in a round or two .
alexander povetkin might want to rethink he title shot because there do not seem to be a way for he to overcome all of the advantage that the champion have .
the weak heavyweight division do not seem to have much to offer the champion .
the two interesting fight that be out there for wlad be a showdown with wba champion , nikolay valuev or a bout with david haye .
former heavyweight champion , riddick bowe , 43-1 , 33 ko 's , return to the ring with a eight round decision win over gene pukall , 14-13-2 , 12 ko 's .
in 2005 , bowe barely escape with a decision over billy zumbrun and all the sign be there that he should never step into the ring again .
when he beat and reportedly stab he wife , bowe cite brain injury from boxing blow as the reason for he bad behavior , but now that brain damage have disappear apparently and he be back in the ring and on the road to real injury should he face somebody that can fight a tad .
the only defeat on bowe 's record be a loss to evander holyfield in 1993 , but it can be argue that he be well on he way to lose both fight with andrew golota in 1996 before the '' foul pole '' get himself disqualify with frequent and impressive low blow .
it be the only time that i have ever see a three punch combo downstairs and be probably the first for bowe .
it can even be argue that bowe lose to zumbrun .
the fact be that he should not be in the ring at all but this be boxing and i be sure that the former champion need the money and that be why he be risk he life .
wladimir klitschko stop tony thompson to retain world heavyweight title .
post : jul 07 , 2012 7 : 40 pm et .
last update : jul 07 , 2012 8 : 44 pm et .
wladimir klitschko stop tony thompson in the sixth round to keep a comfortable hold on he wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belt on saturday in bern , switzerland .
klitschko put thompson on the canvas with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american southpaw never recover .
the ukrainian champion drop thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam william give the challenger a standing count before stop the fight at 2 : 56 .
thompson be not so easy to box .
be satisfied , '' say the 36 - year - old klitschko , who improve he record to 58 - 3 -lrb- 51 ko -rrb- .
klitschko finish the fight five round sooner than when knock out thompson in the 11th of they first title fight in 2008 .
thompson , who be the mandatory challenger nominate by the ibf , fall to 36 - 3 -lrb- 24 ko -rrb- .
after the fight , klitschko lead the 22 , 000 crowd in sign happy birthday to he trainer emanuel steward , whose be 68 on saturday .
tony thompson be very hard to hit , '' steward say .
tony be watch wladimir right hand all night . '' .
a cagey opening round be follow by a scrappy second , as klitschko twice wrestle thompson to the floor .
thompson briefly step up he cautious tactic when land a leave to klitschko face in the third .
klitschko finally land a long , straight right in the fifth and the round end with thompson struggle on the rope .
the champion corner thompson toward the end of the sixth , and land punch to the head though no single blow appear to cause serious damage .
i get catch but be ok , '' thompson say in the ring .
he strong and he world heavyweight champion for a reason . '' .
klitschko extend the domination of the heavyweight rank he share with he elder brother vitalus .
vitalus be in he brother corner as usual , and act as cheerleader in the third round , urge on fan in the football stadium when the first chant of klitschko , klistchko stir .
the elder klitschko will defend he wbc title against manuel charr of germany in moscow on sept . 8 .
wladimir klitschko stop tony thompson in the sixth round to keep a comfortable hold on he wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belt on saturday .
klitschko put thompson on the canvas with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american southpaw never recover .
the ukrainian champion drop thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam william give the challenger a standing count before stop the fight at 2 : 56 .
wladimir klitschko retain he ibf , ibo and wbo heavyweight title with a one-sided seventh-round stoppage of hasim rahman in mannheim , germany .
klitschko dominate from the outset against the former two-time champion , who chew leather from the start and barely land a blow on the ukrainian .
rahman , who take the fight at late notice after mandatory challenger alexander povetkin pull out through injury , look a shadow of the fighter that floor lennox lewis to win the title in 2001 .
the american look clueless as klitschko continually pound he face with a sharp left jab that have rahman back on he heel as early as the first session .
by the third round it be clear that rahman have nothing to offer and he could not even offload the big right hand that win he so many fight in the past .
klitschko have he on the canvas early in the sixth round with a double left hook and , as earlier in the fight , rahman merely retreat to the rope to take more snappy shot , rarely throw anything meaningful in return .
and it come to a merciful end in the seventh , referee tony week save the rock ' from further punishment just moment after warn he corner he would do just that if the challenger fail to show more intent .
another club left have rahman off balance in a neutral corner and with further blow reign down week step in to wave it off .
the victory take klitschko 's record to 52-3 with a remarkable 46 win by knockout , take he unbeaten run to 10 since lose to lamon brewster in 2004 .
'' hasim rahman really take some punishment and i have to pay tribute to he , '' klitschko say .
'' i be surprise he stay in there longer than i thought and i think they would pull he out . '' .
klitschko vs thompson ii result : wladimir klitschko cruise again , win in six .
on jul 7 2012 , 5 : 55p .
wladimir klitschko win he 16th straight fight today , successfully defend the wba , wbo , and ibf heavyweight title against tony thompson , stop the 40 - year - old american in the sixth round of a fight that be never really close .
klitschko -lrb- 58 - 3 , 51 ko -rrb- bomb thompson with a vicious right hand in the fifth round , put he down late in the frame .
that thompson get up speak a lot about he desire to try and win , but the fight essentially end there .
he survive the round , but by the end of the sixth frame , appear mentally beaten and look for a way out .
he go down again in the corner late in the round , and this time referee sam william stop it at 2 : 56 .
klitschko have beat thompson back in 2008 , mostly dominate that fight and knock the tiger out in the 11th round .
this time , with thompson four year older and have have no significant test in the four year that have pass since they first bout , it be even as competitive as it be the first time .
thompson -lrb- 36 - 3 , 24 ko -rrb- just do have a shot in there , look old , and though he awkward southpaw style give klitschko some moment of slight discomfort , it would be a stretch to say that he trouble wladimir .
at this point with the klitschko , as much as i admire they talent , skill , dedication to they craft , and the classy manner in which they carry themselves , i just feel like have see enough from they both .
be run rerun bout now .
be there really anyone out there you can look at and see as a actual threat to they ? be there anyone on the way up who have that skill set ?
i just not see it , and have grow tired of tuning in for passionless exhibition of superiority .
i not think they kill the division , i just think they dominate it , and with no actual hope for that earth - shake upset on the horizon , i think would personally prefer to just see they both take farewell fight and head on out .
there nothing more to see here .
the major heavyweight year end much as it start , with wladimir klitschko own the division against overmatched opposition , and with hasim rahman be nothing but a shell of the man that once shockingly knock out lennox lewis .
klitschko dominate rahman over six-plus round , knock he down in a horribly one-sided sixth round and then landing enough hard blow early in the seventh for referee tony week to step in and call a end to it .
that should just about do it for the 36-year old rahman , who have not score a impressive or notable win since 2005 .
since that win over monte barrett , rahman have go 4-2-1 with a no-contest , beat nothing but club fighter , and often not even look good do that .
he be have a long , strange career , and it look like it be over at the top tier .
he be so thoroughly overmatched tonight and unwilling to fight klitschko that he be clearly get nothing leave as a top fighter .
klitschko will move on and fight alexander povetkin , chris arreola or david haye sometime in march or april , i would wager , and he should be a heavy , heavy favorite against any of they .
arreola be hurt by travis walker , povetkin just do not strike I as capable of be a truly top-notch guy , and haye be shake by monte barrett a bit even though he do basically dominate .
i would love to see klitschko-haye simply because i think haye will make wlad work .
i say during the fight that this be yet another case of klitschko fight up or down to he opponent .
haye would make he fight up .
rahman have he fight down .
the fight as also yet another example of why people crap on heavyweight fighting .
it be not interesting , be not competitive , and you clearly have one guy -lrb- rahman -rrb- not in shape to fight for more than five round .
and worse than that , he do not even fight .
in the sixth , he land one punch .
he spend a lot of time lay on the rope start in the third round , barely punch at all .
the hbo team today be lampley , kellerman and lennox , and they do they usual bit when they watch a heavyweight fight with lennox in the booth , which mean they make verbal love to lewis while lewis agree with they assessment of he as better than everyone fight today .
they be right , of course -- but we all know that .
there be even one round where lennox decide , out loud , that he be better than wladimir klitschko .
as always , a interesting group that teach I a lot about the fight i be watch .
klitschko stop thompson in regulation win .
july 7 , 2012 .
wladimir klitschko retain he ibf , wbo , wba & ibo heavyweight world title with a second professional victory over tony thompson on saturday .
klitschko , 36 , stop the 40 - year - old thompson with two seconds remain of the sixth round in switzerland to retain he collection of title .
in 2008 , last time the pair meet , the bout go 11 round before the ukrainian emerge triumphant .
klitschko dump thompson onto the canvas with a booming right end towards the end of the fifth round of the fight in bern , and from then on it be simply a matter of time before referee sam william stop matter .
the decisive moment come at the end of the next three - minute stretch , the same punch again bring thompson to he knee and - despite beat the count - he be clearly too unsteady to continue .
klitschko , who could face tyson fury in the near future after be call out by the british - irish fighter , improve to a career record of 58 win and three defeat .
wladimir klitschko easily set aside the challenge of substitute hasim rahman , stop the former heavyweight champion in seven round on saturday in mannheim , germany .
klitschko -lrb- 52-3 , 46 knockout -rrb- retain he international boxing federation title for the fifth time in the process .
the six-foot-five ukrainian-born champ be never threaten in the bout , control the distance with he jab and introduce some heavy right hand begin late in the second round .
rahman , 36 , soon grow more intent on survival than win and fall from three consecutive left hook in the sixth .
referee tony week elect to stop the bout early in the seventh when the american be offer no reply to klitschko 's thud blow .
rahman -lrb- 45-7-2 , 36 ko -rrb- fall into the title shoot five week ago when unbeaten russian alexander povetkin suffer a ankle injury in training and could not face klitschko .
the baltimore , md. , native held portion of heavyweight title on two previous occasion , but have not beat a elite opponent in several year .
he be undisputed champ for six month in 2001 after stunning lennox lewis by knockout in south africa .
lewis avenge the defeat later in that year with a one-punch knockout of he own .
rahman would go on to win the vacant world boxing council in 2005 over monte barrett but lose it just over a year later to oleg maskaev .
the win over rahman be the 32-year-old klitschko 's third of the year , follow up a decision over sultan ibragimov and a 11th-round stoppage of tony thompson .
he older brother , vitalus , now hold the wbc title .
article post on 08 . 07 . 2012 .
wladimir klitschko stop tony thompson in 6 with efficient execution .
heavyweight champion wladimir klitschko once again display he dominance by score a sixth round stoppage against american contender tony thompson .
klitschko utilize good ring smart and superior punching power to systematically break thompson down .
the first round start cautiously with both fighter become reacquaint with each other in a tentative feeling out process .
tony be exhibit he trademark awkward movement and wladimir be measure he with the left rangefinder .
it be a relatively even round without much action , but klitschko land the two best shot of the round even if tony throw a little more .
thompson try jump on wladimir to start the second but the champion be prepare .
klitschko follow this with a nice right hand follow by a short crisp combination .
later in the round another klitschko right snuck in , and then a series of big rights back the challenger into the rope .
thompson be wrestle down to the canvas a couple of time in this stanza , and wlad '' s superior strength be evident .
klitschko be patient and measure , and he approach be pay off in round two .
in between round hall of fame trainer emanuel steward tell klitschko he be mentally wear thompson down with pressure , and this certainly appear to be the case .
in round three klitschko be again use he left hand to block jab and establish range .
klitschko be look almost exclusively for right hand , and be not use the authoritative jab we be accustom to see because of thompson '' s awkwardness .
thompson be throw jab that be mostly be block or miss the mark .
while it be obvious thompson be have success in neutralize wlad jab , he be also be pepper with klitschko right hand that be inflict far more damage than anything thompson be throw .
wladimir finally land a solid jab almost halfway through the round , but he right hand be still the story of the fight .
thompson land a decent left later in the round , but klitschko be too elusive for he for the most part .
it be another clear round for the champion .
the fourth round be more of the same .
the action be highlight by a thudding right and a well time combination from the champion .
before the start of the fifth , steward urge wladimir to throw more jab and to spend less time wait in between attack .
as have be the case many time in the past , klitschko respond to steward '' be instruction and execute with workmanlike precision .
he start land the jab more , and this enable he to score with a booming right hand that send thompson crash to the canvas .
tony rise to he foot and the action resume with about 20 seconds leave .
the challenger hold on to survive , but this be perhaps the beginning of the end .
thompson come out to start the sixth and seem to have regain he equilibrium .
he be bounce around , react to klitschko '' s feint , and mostly retreat in a defensive posture .
as the round progress he be try to fling the jab out , but klitschko be slowly measure he up , cool as a assassin .
klitschko begin throw the infrequent jab and landing more big rights .
thompson be try he best to survive , but then a vicious two - hand assault send thompson down for the second time .
to he credit , he manage to rise to he foot , but the referee then wave it off .
this be klitschko '' s second victory over thompson , and with it he improve to 58 - 3 with 51 win come by way of knockout .
slowly but surely , wladimir klitschko be begin to establish a strong legacy for himself .
he may not always have the most crowd please style , but he be intelligent , powerful , consistent , and extremely efficient at execute he game plan .
the epix broadcast of the match make note of the follow all - time heavyweight record in title fight .
heavyweight title fight .
joe loui 26 - 1 .
muhammad ali 22 - 3 .
larry holme 21 - 5 .
wladimir klitschko 19 - 2 .
lennox lewi 15 - 2 - 1 .
now of course this include klitschko '' s title reign as wbo champion as well as he current reign which begin when he capture the ibf strap from chris byrd .
many critic will note that the wbo be not universally recognize in high regard at the time klitschko hold that title .
even still , however , klitschko have win 16 fight in a row since lose to lamon brewster in april 2004 , and he be win 13 title fight in a row since he april 2006 victory over byrd .
beyond that , he have rarely lose a round during that impressive stretch .
give the current state of the heavyweight landscape , it be not inconceivable that klitschko may well top that list before all be say and do .
wladimir klitschko stop hasim rahman in the seventh round to retain he ibf , ibo and wbo heavyweight title at the sap-arena in mannheim , germany .
rahman , who famously beat lennox lewis to become heavyweight champion of the world in 2001 , barely land a punch as the ukrainian dominate the encounter from start to finish .
klitschko 's left jab cause problem for rahman from the start and the american have to resort to hold the kiev fighter to stem the tide of punch come he way in the early round .
rahman start to look in trouble in the third when he spend most of the round on the rope as klitschko land several solid jab on the american 's chin .
klitschko follow up a bruise fourth round with a series of jab in the fifth that keep he opponent on the rope .
klitschko put he opponent on the canvas in the sixth with a flurry of left hook .
rahman get up after a seven count but spend the rest of the round on the rope and only the bell save he .
the champion finish the job 44 seconds into the seventh round when he follow up a left jab with a hook over the top to put rahman in the corner before referee tony week step in to stop the fight .
wladimir klitschko defeat tony thompson in six round .
7 july 2012 .
last update at 22 : 46 gmt .
wladimir klitschko retain he wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belt by stop american challenger tony thompson in the sixth round .
the ukrainian world champion extend he unbeaten run to eight year by overcome 40 - year - old thompson in berne , switzerland on saturday .
thompson never recover from a big right hand from klitschko near the end of the fifth round .
and the contest be over when thompson hit the canvas again in the sixth .
it be 36 - year - old klitschko 58th victory , 51 by ko , for only three defeat - and he 16th in a row .
wladimir and he older brother vitalus have dominate the heavyweight division for so many year that they be now revisit fighter from the past .
thompson last meet wladimir klitschko in 2008 , when the american challenge be end in the 11th round .
wladimir klitschko defend he wbo and ibf heavyweight title in germany today with a lopsided victory over the american hasim rahman , win by tko in the seventh round .
klitschko dominate the early round , repeatedly land hard jab that rahman just could not answer .
in the third round klitschko so thoroughly dominate that i score it a 10-8 round even though rahman never go down .
klitschko eventually wear rahman down enough to knock he to the canvas in the sixth round -- a round in which rahman do not land a clean punch at all .
early in the seventh , klitschko staggered rahman , and the ref mercifully stop it .
klitschko and he brother vitalus be generally recognize as the two best heavyweight in the world , and although they will never fight each other , i hope they will start fight better opposition than rahman , who be well past he prime and appear to be out of shape .
mismatch like this one do not do much to advance heavyweight boxing .
klitschko improve he record to 52-3 and be now on a 10-fight winning streak .
rahman fall to 45-7-2 and be now 10-5-2 with one no contest since knock out lennox lewis in 2001 .
wladimir klitschko retain world heavyweight belt .
jul . 7 5 : 59 pm edt .
wladimir klitschko stop tony thompson in the sixth round to retain he wba , ibf and wbo heavyweight title belt saturday night .
the 36 - year - old champion klitschko , 58 - 3 with 51 knockout , floor thompson with a big right hand near the end of the fifth round at stade de suisse , and the 40 - year - old american never recover .
the ukrainian champion drop thompson again in the sixth , and referee sam william give the challenger a standing count before stop the fight .
in 2008 , klitschko stop thompson in the 11th round .
thompson , who be the mandatory challenger nominate by the ibf , drop to 36 - 3 .
break news - 3 dead due to molotov cocktail at bank .
accord to international media and greek sky tv .
three people have die in a blaze that break out at marfin egnatia bank , on stadiou street , downtown athen .
the fire start when demonstrator hurl molotov cocktail fire bomb at the bank .
sky - tv report that the 3 bank employee be burn to death .
they be trap in the stairwell of the 3rd floor while try to flee the fire break out two floor below .
four people - one with broken bone , 3 with inspiratory problem - be treat in nearby hospital .
report have it that angry demonstrator throw stone to the fire brigade come in .
there be report about fire at finance ministry - dept , burnt car & shop , smash window .
the van of turkish ntv private channel be also set on fire .
clash between demonstrator and plice be continue .
so far no information about injured peple or arrest .
information flow be hinder today since greek media be also take part to the general strike .
ten of thousand angry greek demonstrate in athen protest the harsh austerity measure and severe cut on salary and pension as well price increase in electricity and extra tax .
the slogan be against the politician , the police and the journalist .
people demand give the steal money back .
people demand property confiscation of corrupt politician and that those respomsible for the economic crisis should go to jail .
the greek government announce sunday drastic public spending cut in order to get bailout loan of 110 b . euro from eu & imf .
greek austerity : british view .
greece parliament be due to vote on the hefty cut and reform propose by the government to address the country financial crisis .
it come a day after three bank worker die in a petrol bomb attack as demonstration over the plan austerity measure turn violent .
a bomb explosion at a bank kill a police officer and a state bomb disposal technician , and state police do not have any suspect , official say saturday .
'' that person be dangerous and need to be find as soon as possible , '' say lt. gregg hasting of the oregon state police .
the explosion occur friday afternoon at a west coast bank branch in woodburn , about 30 mile south of portland .
the police go to check on a telephone bomb threat receive by a well fargo bank branch in the center of town and find a suspicious device that turn out to be harmless .
but the police say the investigation lead they to the nearby west coast office where the bomb be find .
the police would not discuss a possible motive for the bombing .
lieutenant hasting say he do not know of any grudge against the west coast bank , a statement echo by its president and chief executive , robert sznewaj .
'' we be not aware of anything , '' mr. sznewajs say .
police capt. tom tennant and senior trooper william hakim , both 51 , die at the scene captain tennant be a 28-year veteran of the woodburn police department , and trooper hakim , a bomb technician , have be with the force for 11 year .
woodburn 's police chief , scott russell , 46 , be injure .
chief russell , who have be with the police department for two decade , be in critical condition but stable at a portland hospital .
state police say the inside of the bank be extensively damage , and a female employee be treat at a hospital and release another bank employee be uninjured .
lieutenant hasting decline to describe the bomb in detail but indicate it be powerful .
a bank employee find the bomb in bush outside , and it explode after officer take it inside .
lieutenant hasting say he do not know why the officer take the bomb inside .
federal authority say saturday that they be offer a $ 35,000 reward for information lead to a arrest and conviction in the case .
three kill as rioter bomb greek bank .
may 5 , 2010 .
a firebomb attack on a bank in greece kill at least three people today as police fight pitched battle with striking protester furious at brutal budget cut design to avoid national bankruptcy .
hooded youth hurl petrol bomb at store and business in the centre of the capital , athen , and demonstrator try to storm parliament during the general strike , as the rioting spread to the northern city of thessaloniki .
police say two woman and one man die at a branch of the marfin bank which catch fire after hooded youth break a window and hurl petrol bomb inside .
around 20 more people have to be usher to safety .
at least two other building , one use by tax official , catch fire in other firebomb attack on the margin of the protest .
athen underground station be shut and the international airport desert as ten of thousand of union member rally on the eve of a vote in parliament on the plan cut and tax rise .
the general strike be the first major test of the socialist government resolve to push through unprecedented measure since agree a ? 110 billion -lrb- dh472 . 72bn -rrb- debt bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund at the weekend .
prime minister george papandreou insistence that the measure be vital for the nation survival fail to dissuade union from paralyse public transport and prevent ferry from leave dock .
after rally in two separate demonstration in central athen , member of the main union begin converge on parliament , where the government be prepare for the measure to be vote on thursday .
they take everything from I , i not know how be go to get by , '' say 61 - year - old anargyros bizianis , a municipal worker in the athen suburb of piraeus who earn ? 900 -lrb- dh4 , 275 -rrb- a month .
as the protester try to break through a police line in front of parliament , they first hurl stone and bottle of water , prompt the riot squad officer to fire back with tear gas .
full - scale clash soon then erupt outside the building , with riot police try to disperse the crowd with baton - charge .
during the unrest , one protester throw a petrol bomb .
youth also go on the rampage in other part of the capital , with several dozen youth hurl petrol bomb at store and bank , and smashing shop window and bus shelter with iron bar .
athen police chief mobilise all they force , include those not on active duty , by declare a general state of alert .
the protester in thessaloniki target store and bank in the city centre before they be disperse by anti - riot police .
a group of about 200 communist have storm the athen acropolis yesterday , unfurl banner read people of europe , rise up . '' .
the head of the million - member strong gsee private sector union , giannis panagopoulo , say : the greek people have be call to make sacrifice while the rich pay nothing . '' .
a government official downplay the unrest say that for year there be strike and protest in this country without much consequence . '' .
but market react to the violence with alarm as greek stock plunge 5 . 4 per cent .
the government , push to the brink of default , agree at the weekend to slash spending and jack up tax in return for ? 110bn in loan over three year from eurozone country and the international monetary fund .
among the major measure , the government be to cut 13th and 14th month bonus pay for civil servant and retiree ; require three year more for pension contribution ; and raise the retirement age for woman to 65 , the same level as man .
after month of hesitation , eurozone country and the imf agree to lend greece billion of euro at below market rate after concern that the athen government debt crisis could trigger a knock - on effect elsewhere .
the german chancellor , angela merkel , fight accusation of hold up the bailout , say today that the greek crisis underline the need for a overhaul of the eu fiscal rule .
the future of europe and the future of germany within europe be at stake , '' she tell a debate on berlin decision to lend ? 22 . 4bn to greece .
a explosion at a bank kill a police officer and a state bomb disposal technician , official say saturday , offer a $ 35,000 reward for information lead to a arrest and conviction in the case .
'' that person be dangerous and need to be find as soon as possible , '' say oregon state police lt. gregg hasting .
the explosion occur friday afternoon at a west coast bank branch office in the agricultural town of woodburn .
police go to check on a telephone bomb treat receive by a nearby well fargo branch bank and find a suspicious device , but that device turn out to be harmless .
but police say the investigation lead they to the nearby west coast office where the bomb be find by a bank employee in the bush outside the building , and it explode after officer take it inside .
hasting do not know why the officer take it inside .
police capt. tom tennant and state senior trooper william hakim , both 51 , die at the scene .
police chief scott russell , 46 , be injure and be in stable but critical condition .
the inside of the bank suffer extensive damage , and a female employee be treat at a hospital and release , police say .
another bank employee be uninjured .
police have no motive for the bombing and could offer no detail about the bomb other than to say it be as powerful .
deadly fire - bomb hit bank during greek riot .
first post 23 : 37 : 00 05 / 05 / 2010 .
a fire - bomb attack on a bank in greece kill at least three people wednesday as police fight pitched battle with striking protestor furious at brutal budget cut design to avert national bankruptcy .
hooded youth hurl petrol bomb at store and business in the center of the capital athen and demonstrator try to storm parliament during the general strike , as the rioting spread to the northern city of thessaloniki .
police say two woman and one man die at a branch of the marfin bank which catch fire after rioter break a window and throw molotov cocktail inside .
around 20 more people have to be usher to safety .
nobody have the right to violence and particularly violence that lead to murder , '' prime minister george papandreou tell parliament as he condemn a raw murderous act .
at least two other building , one use by tax official , catch fire in other fire - bomb attack on the margin of the protest .
athen underground station be shutter and the international airport desert as ten of thousand of union member rally on the eve of a vote in parliament on the plan cut and tax hike .
the general strike be the first major test of the socialist government resolve to push through unprecedented measure since agree a ? 110 - billion -lrb- 143 - billion -rrb- eu and imf debt bailout at the weekend .
papandreou insistence that the measure be vital for the nation survival fail to dissuade union from paralyze public service .
after rally in two separate demonstration in central athen , unionist march on parliament where a vote on the measure will be hold thursday .
they take everything from I , i not know how be go to get by , '' say 61 - year - old anargyros bizianis , a municipal worker in the athen suburb of piraeus who earn ? 900 a month .
as the protestor try to break through a police line in front of parliament , they first hurl stone and bottle of water , prompt officer to respond with tear gas .
full - scale clash then erupt , with riot police try to disperse the crowd with baton - charge .
during the unrest , one protestor throw a petrol bomb .
youth also go on the rampage in other part of the capital , with several dozen youth hurl petrol bomb at store , smash shop window and bus shelter with iron bar .
athen police chief mobilize all they force , include those not on active duty , by declare a general state of alert .
the protestor in thessaloniki target store and bank in the city center before they be disperse by the anti - riot police .
a group of about 200 communist have storm the athen acropolis on tuesday , unfurl banner read people of europe , rise up . '' .
the greek people have be call to make sacrifice while the rich pay nothing , '' say giannis panagopoulo , head of the gsee private sector union .
a government official downplay the unrest say that for year there be strike and protest in this country without much consequence . '' .
but market react with alarm as greek stock close down 3 . 9 percent .
push to the brink of default , the government agree at the weekend to slash spending and jack up tax in return for 110 billion euro in loan over three year from eurozone country and the international monetary fund .
among the major measure , the government be to cut 13th and 14th month bonus pay for civil servant and retiree ; require three year more for pension contribution ; and raise the retirement age for woman to 65 .
after month of hesitation , eurozone country and the imf agree to lend greece billion at below market rate after concern the athen crisis could trigger a knock - on effect elsewhere .
fight accusation of hold up the bailout , german chancellor angela merkel say the crisis underline the need for a overhaul of eu fiscal rule .
the future of europe and the future of germany within europe be at stake , '' she tell a debate on berlin decision to lend ? 22 . 4 billion to greece .
a woodburn police officer and state police bomb squad technician be kill , while the city 's police chief remain in critical condition after a bomb explode late friday at a woodburn bank .
the fbi and atf offer a $ 35,000 reward for information lead to the arrest and conviction of the person or person responsible for the explosion and death , oregon state police say .
the explosion happen at the west coast bank on the newberg 214 highway just before 5:30 p.m. , marion county deputy say .
officer be on the scene investigate a report of a suspicious device when the explosion occur .
woodburn police department capt. tom tennant and oregon state police bomb technician bill hakim be kill in the blast .
woodburn chief of police scott russell be list in critical condition at ohsu and a female bank employee receive minor injury .
on friday morning , a woodburn-area well fargo bank receive a threatening phone call from a unknown person .
bank personnel notify woodburn police department and the bank be evacuate while police investigate with the assistance of the fbi and a oregon state police bomb squad .
the investigation lead to the west coast bank on highway 214 , just east of interstate 5 .
while investigator be in the area , a suspicious device detonate .
state police say the first device , discover by police after the suspicious phone call , be determine not to be dangerous .
the second device , which be discover by a bank employee , do detonate .
it be unclear to police whether the device be relate .
highway 214 in woodburn be to remain closed most of the weekend due to the explosion , police say .
resident and commuter be encourage to find other route of travel in the area .
'' this individual take the life of two police officer , critically injure the chief of police , and potentially could have take the life of bank employee inside , '' oregon state police lt. hasting say .
'' if it take a $ 35,000 reward , or if that reward grow , to break the case open then it be money well spend . '' .
hakim become the second bomb technician in oregon state police history to be kill in the line of duty .
marion county sheriff describe hakim as a dedicated family man with wife and two teenaged child .
woodburn police sgt. jason tlusty become emotional describe capt. tennant , who also be kill in the blast .
tlusty describe tennant as a active community member '' who would do anything to help those in need . '' .
twelve hour into the investigation authority say it remain unclear whether the two device be relate .
a multi-agency investigation involve federal , state , county and city police agency be investigate , coordinate by the marion county sheriff 's office work with a interagency team of investigator and the marion county district attorney 's office .
anyone with information be ask to call the tip line at 800-800-3855 .
three die in bank during greek riot .
update 5 / 5 / 2010 1 : 41 pm .
riot over harsh new austerity measure leave three bank worker dead and engulf the street of athen on wednesday , as angry protester try to storm parliament , hurl molotov cocktail at police and torch building .
police respond with barrage of tear gas .
ten of thousand of people take to the street in a nationwide strike to protest new tax and government spending cut demand by the international monetary fund and other european nation before heavily indebted greece get a euro110 billion -lrb- 141 billion -rrb- loan package to keep it from default .
the three bank worker a man and two woman die after demonstrator set they bank on fire along the main demonstration route in central athen .
as they colleague sob in the street , five other bank worker be rescue from the balcony of the burning building .
a demonstration be one thing and murder be quite another ! '' prime minister george papandreou thunder in parliament during a session to discuss the spending cut he announce sunday measure even the imf have call draconian .
lawmaker hold a minute of silence for the dead the first death during a protest in greece since 1991 .
we be all concern by greece economic and budgetary situation but at this time we thought be with the human victim in athen , '' european union president herman van rompuy say in brussels .
a senior fire department official say demonstrator prevent firefighter from reach the burning building , cost they vital time .
several crucial minute be lose , '' the official say , visibly upset .
if we have intervene earlier , the loss of life could have be prevent . '' .
he ask not to be identify pend a official announcement .
in berlin , german chancellor angela merkel call the greek bailout critical for all of europe .
nothing less than the future of europe , and with that the future of germany in europe , be at stake , '' merkel tell lawmaker in berlin , urge they to quickly pass the country share of the bailout euro22 billion -lrb- 28 billion -rrb- over three year by friday .
we be at a fork in the road . '' .
greece face a may 19 due date on debt it say it not repay without the help .
in brussels , european union official desperately try to calm market fear that greece debt crisis be spread to the rest of europe , insist it be a unique case combine profligacy and tamper account .
van rompuy insist the grow debt problem in spain and portugal have absolutely nothing to do with the situation in greece . '' .
greece be a unique and particular case in the eu because of its precarious debt dynamics and because it have cheat with its statistics for year and year , '' eu commissioner ollus rehn say .
but moody investor service , a major rating agency , put portugal bond rating on review for possible downgrade wednesday .
spanish and portuguese bond and stock slump further on the news , reflect fear that they may also have trouble repay they debt and that the eurozone would have to extend even larger bailout to they .
on the street of athen , demonstrator chant thief , thief ! '' as they attempt to break through a riot police cordon guard parliament and chase ceremonial guard away from the tomb of the unknown soldier in front of the building .
tear gas drift across the city center as rioter hurl pave stone and fire bomb at police .
firefighter extinguish blaze at least two building the bank and a branch of the finance ministry while protester set up burn barricade and torch car and a fire truck .
police say 12 people be injure in the riot .
the march come amid a 24 - hour nationwide general strike that ground all flight to and from greece , shut down port , school and government service , and leave hospital work with emergency medical staff .
the acropolis and all other ancient site be close and journalist also walk off the job , suspend television and radio news broadcast .
but media later break the strike to report on the death and the protest .
violence also break out in the northern city of thessaloniki , where another 20 , 000 people march through the city center and some youth smash store window .
union reaction over austerity measure until now have be relatively muted by greece volatile standard , despite several previous strike .
but anger mount after papandreou announce cut in salary and pension for civil servant and another round of consumer tax increase .
papandreou say he have no choice but to implement the measure if greece be to avoid bankruptcy .
there be only one other solution for the country to default , take the citizenry with it .
and that would not have affect the rich , it would have affect worker and pensioner , '' he tell parliament on wednesday .
that be a real possibility , however nightmarish . '' .
under the bailout package , greece will receive loan over three year from the imf and the other 15 country who share the euro currency .
the rescue aim to prevent athen debt trouble from become a wider crisis for the euro .
but the rioting underline skepticism that the greek government could keep up its end of the bargain , help drive the euro below 1 . 29 for the first time in over a year .
even with the bailout , many economist think greece will eventually default on or restructure its debt because its prospects for economic growth be so poor over the next several year , hurt government revenue .
some fear the austerity measure insist upon by the eu and imf could make prospects for growth even worse .
union say low - income greek will suffer disproportionately from the latest austerity measure , which aim to save euro30 billion -lrb- 40 billion -rrb- the country current budget deficit through 2012 .
these people be lose they rights , they be lose they future , '' say yiannis panagopoulo , head of gsee , one of the two largest union .
the country can surrender without a fight . '' .
imf chief dominique strauss - kahn warn that the crisis could spread to other country despite the rescue package effort to contain it .
everyone must remain extremely vigilant to this risk , strauss - kahn say in a interview in french newspaper le parisien wednesday .
i completely understand the greek population anger , its incomprehension at the size of the economic catastrophe , '' strauss - kahn say .
but , he say , greek must also understand that without these measure the situation would be infinitely more serious . '' .
the draft bill of the new austerity measure be to be vote on thursday .
papandreou socialist hold a comfortable majority of 160 in the 300 - seat parliament and the bill be expect to pass easily .
a bomb explode at a oregon bank in woodburn late friday kill a police officer and a bomb technician .
accord to woodburn police a officer arrive at the west coast bank after receive a call that a suspicious device have be spot in bush near the bank .
the bank be evacuate and the device be move inside at which time the bomb explode .
earlier in the day a well fargo bank have be contact by a individual and tell that a bomb have be plant .
after a sweep of the area be make authority determine no bomb have be present .
shortly after , the west coast bank receive a call with a similar warning .
three dead after fire - bomb hit bank during greek riot .
a fire - bomb attack on a bank in athen leave at least three people dead as police fight pitched battle with striking protester furious at brutal spending cut design to avoid national bankruptcy .
hooded youth hurl petrol bomb at store and business in the greek capital , set the bank and two government building ablaze .
protester also try to storm the greek parliament and the rioting spread to greece second city , thessaloniki .
police say at least three people , a man and two woman , be kill in the fire - bomb attack .
firefighter say as many as 20 people have be inside the bank .
it be unclear if the dead be customer or bank employee .
two building , one use by tax official and another by regional authority , also catch fire .
greek president carolo papoulia condemn the violence , say the debt - hit country have reach the edge of the abyss .
we country have reach the edge of the abyss .
it be the responsibility of we all to not take the step into the void .
what be at stake in come day be to keep social cohesion and social peace . '' .
greek prime minister george papandreou say the firebombing be a raw murderous act .
athen underground station be shutter and the international airport desert as ten of thousand of union member rally on the eve of a vote in parliament on the plan cut and tax hike .
the general strike be the first major test of the socialist government resolve to push through unprecedented measure since agree a 110 billion -lrb- 158 billion -rrb- eu and imf debt bailout over the weekend .
prime minister george papandreou insistence that the measure be vital for the nation survival fail to dissuade union from paralyse public transport , ground air traffic and prevent ferry from leave dock .
after rally in two separate demonstration in central athen , member of the main union begin converge on parliament , where the government be prepare for the measure to be vote on thursday .
a bomb explode friday at a west coast bank branch in woodburn , oregon , kill a woodburn police officer and a oregon state police bomb squad technician , and critically injure the woodburn police chief .
three kill in athen bank fire amid strike .
7 : 00pm uk , wednesday 05 may 2010 .
three people have die after rioter in greece set fire to a bank in athen during a nationwide strike against huge spending cut aim at rescue the country economy .
greek police clash with protester in the capital as ten of thousand of people join a 24 - hour walkout .
the three bank worker - two woman and a man - be kill when they branch go up in flame after a protester throw a petrol bomb inside .
firefighter rescue another five people from the balcony .
greek prime minister george papandreou condemn the killing , say : a demonstration be one thing and murder be quite another .
he add : we will , of course , stand alongside the family who lose love one .
this be the least we can do .
to those who now mourn the loss of three child we say that the perpetrator will be identify and hold accountable for what they do . '' .
the general strike be stage as a protest against a new round of draconian austerity measure .
police say as many as 20 , 000 people take to the street of athen as rally all around the country kick off .
also in the capital , a large group of people attempt to break through a riot police cordon guard the parliament building .
the protester launch rock and petrol bomb at the officer , who respond with stun grenade and tear gas - fill syntagma square with chemical smoke .
violence be also report in thessaloniki , where a further 20 , 000 people join the city demonstration .
greece have be paralyse by the strike and be effectively cut - off from the outside world .
flight to and from the country be ground , while train and ferry suspend they route .
hospital and school be also hit .
the greek government be attempt to slice 30bn euro -lrb- 25 . 7bn -rrb- from its deficit over the next three year .
the country have to save money as a condition of a 110bn - euro emergency rescue package from the european union and the international monetary fund .
ordinary worker be furious .
trade union say they member be have to pay for a economic crisis that have be create by corrupt politician .
the vice president of the civil servant union , elia vrettako , tell sky news : the measure of the government overtake we historic gain and abolish we rights and return society back to the 1960 . '' .
other union leader have call the cut savage attack on worker rights .
market around the world remain sceptical about the bail - out , as concern grow about the economic crisis in the eurozone and fear it will spead .
oregon state police say a bomb explosion at a woodburn-area bank kill a local police officer and a state bomb disposal technician .
the police say saturday both be dead at the scene of the explosion the day before , but the police delay announce the death of 51-year-old senior trooper william hakim so he family could be notify .
at a briefing , the police identify the woodburn police officer who die as 51-year-old capt. tom tennant .
woodburn 's police chief , 46-year-old scott russell , be in a portland hospital , in critical condition .
state police say the inside of the west coast bank branch office be extensively damage .
the police say they do not have suspect .
war - zone athen : three people dead , many building burn as general strike march turn into a battle .
may 5 2010 15 : 14 .
three people have suffocate to death as a result of a fire in marfin bank during ongoing battle between anti - measure protester and police in athen .
the athens protest march mark the zenith of the general strike call for the 5th of may be attend by a approximate 200 , 000 -lrb- 20 , 000 which be the foreign broadcast number refer to the pame march alone -rrb- , although because of lack of media coverage due to the media participation in the general strike no concrete estimate can be make .
after the pame -lrb- communist party union -rrb- protester leave syntagma square , the first line of the main march start arrive before the parliament with the first clash erupt at the end of stadiou street .
the march then walk on the unknown soldier grounds lead the presidential guard to retreat , and attempt to storm the parliament but be push back by riot police force which today demonstrate a particularly staunch attitude and resolve against the demonstrator .
soon battle erupt around the parliament with protester throw molotov cocktail and rock , with one riot police armored van torch , and the police respond by extend use of tear gas that soon make athen atmosphere unbearably acrid .
as more block reach syntagma square , the battle spread across the city center and last for more than five hour .
during the clash several state building be set ablaze include the county headquarters of attika .
at the time of write the ministry of finance be report to be on fire , and vital tax document as destroy by the rage fire .
however the strange thing be that it be the fourth floor of the building that be burn , at a height inapproachable to petrol bomb .
the building be in danger of total collapse .
accord to news report that begin at 14 : 00 greek time after , under pressure by the event , most radio and tv station decide to break they strike , claim that the fire at marfin bank stadiou street branch that have lead to the death of three worker -lrb- one a pregnant woman -rrb- be start by protester .
however this remain a unsubstantiated claim .
a similar case three decade ago have originally put the blame for the fire at kappa - marousus build on panepistimiou street , lead to the death of several people inside , to anarchist , while its be later prove the fire be cause by tear gas fire by the police .
after the tragic death of the three worker make the round of athen , new clash start to spread in the greek capital , with a large crowd gather outside the burn bank when marfin boss try to visit the site .
clash break out between the crowd and police when the former attack the bank magnate accuse he of force the dead worker to scab on a general strike and lock they in the building despite they demand to evacuate it since 12 : 00 .
in parliament the communist party of greece have accuse the government for the death , claim it be a result of agent provocateur fascist group .
the claim of the communist party be base on the fact that 50 fascist try to enter the pame demo bear the flag of the union earlier in the morning .
the fascist be spot , chase and seek refuge behind riot police line .
accuse the extreme - right as be behind the death , the coalition of radical left have declare in parliament that the government can pretend to be in grief for the loss of life , as it have be attack human life by all means possible .
meanwhile , extend clash break out in salonika where approximately 50 , 000 people march destroy dozen of bank and corporate shop in greece second largest city .
clash with the police continue for several hour .
accord to news broadcast anarchist have occupy the labour center of the city .
in patras , around 20 , 000 protester be join by tractor driver and garbage truck driver on they vehicle , as flaming barricade be erect along central street of the city and clash develop between protestor and the police .
in ioannina the protester attack bank and corporate shop lead to extend use of chemical by the police .
in heraklion , 10 , 000 people be report as march against the measure .
in corfu , protester take part in the anti - measure march occupy the county headquarters .
protester have occupy the administrative headquarters of naxo and the city hall of naoussa .
as a result of the athen riot , the police have cordon off the entire center of the city , erect check point of entry and exit , while all police work permit have be recall .
at the time of write battle continue to rage in the inner city , while news broadcast claim the police be mobilise its force to storm a anarchist squat in exarcheia .
bomb explode at woodburn bank , kill a police officer and osp bomb technician .
a bomb explode friday at a west coast bank branch in woodburn , kill a woodburn police officer and a oregon state police bomb squad technician , and critically injure the woodburn police chief .
the bomb detonate around 5:30 p.m. at the bank in the 2500 block of oregon 214 .
the victim have be identify as senior trooper william hakim of the oregon state police and capt. tom tennant of the woodburn police department , both describe by colleague this morning as dedicated professional and family man .
hakim be the second bomb technician to die in the line of duty in the history of the oregon state police , hasting say he leave behind a wife and two child , a 16-year-old son and a 18-year-old daughter .
tennant be promote to captain four year ago .
he leave behind a wife and three child , a 17-year-old son and two grown daughter .
tennant 's longtime colleague , woodburn police sgt. jason tlusty , be visibly shake as he describe he friend and coworker this morning .
courtesy of the woodburn independentscott russell , woodburn police chief .
woodburn police chief scott russell receive critical injury and be take to ohsu hospital , accord to osp lt. gregg hastings .
a hospital representative say russell , a 20-year veteran of the department with two daughter , be in a intensive care unit this morning .
hasting this morning announce that the atf and fbi be offer a $ 35,000 reward for information lead to the arrest of the individual responsible for the crime .
he describe those responsible as '' very dangerous . '' .
'' that person need to be find as soon as possible , '' hasting say during the somber press conference this morning .
a bank employee suffer non-life threatening injury .
the other identity be not release .
marion county deputy medical examiner rodge womack say police be concern there might be a second bomb in the area ; police dog and a robot be comb the area late into the night .
a undetermined number of people live within a block of the bank be evacuate from they home friday , and a quarter-mile area around the crime scene be cordon off .
the bank have be evacuate before the bomb detonate , accord to west coast bank chief executive robert sznewaj .
the branch have be there for at least 10 year , he say .
the blast come several hour after someone make a threatening phone call to well fargo around 10:30 a.m. oregon state police , the fbi and woodburn police respond to the call .
police do not provide much detail about what transpire between then and 5:30 p.m. , when the bomb go off at west coast bank .
but accord to sznewaj , two bomb threat come into the two bank , which sit side by side on oregon 214 .
police respond to both , but it be a employee who find a suspicious device under the bush outside west coast bank .
sznewaj tell the statesman journal that he bank for a call '' from a unknown person say that we should look for one as well .
we call authority , but they look and find nothing . '' .
sznewaj say that '' one of we people see a device in the bush around the branch and call authority .
we look at it and evacuate the branch and send people away . '' .
he say authority decide to move the device inside the branch and apparently scan it -- and then it go off .
sznewaj say he do not know whether the bomb go off on its own or as a result of the technician ' investigation .
after the blast , officer close down a large swath of the commercial strip , populate by gas station , fast food shop and strip mall .
marion county sheriff russ isham say the area will remain close through the weekend , add that he do not know if there could be additional bomb .
police ask anyone with information to call the atf at 800-800-3855 .
investigator for the fbi and the atf be dispatch to the scene .
police say early today that a multi-agency investigation involve federal , state , county and city police agency have begin to identify suspect .
the blast shake up area resident .
bob currie , 66 , a resident of panor senior condominium which overlook the well fargo branch , say that in the morning he see a police car block the drive-up teller window and a fbi bomb technician check a garbage can in the parking lot .
he say the well fargo evacuate at 1:30 p.m. and he see people leave the bank from he balcony .
later in the afternoon , '' i go back to my computer and all of a sudden hear this loud ka-boom . '' .
t.j. simon , 17 , who work at the 76 station on oregon 214 about 500 foot from the bank , also hear the blast .
'' at first i think it be thunder , until i see all the cop show up . '' .
'' it sound like somebody toss a dumpster off a three-story building , '' say jan olson , who be smoking on she deck in the nearby evergreen estate apartment complex .
3 dead after protester torch greek bank .
update thu 6 may 2010 , 9 : 03am aest .
three people die in a burning bank as ten of thousand of protester take to the street of athen during a general strike over the greek government planned spending cut .
some protester try to storm parliament while other throw petrol bomb at police and torch building in protest against new austerity measure and a decision to raise tax to meet the condition of its international bailout .
a petrol bomb hurl at a athens branch of the marfin investment bank kill two woman and a man who be catch in the result inferno .
it be always go to be hard to convince greek that rip 43 billion out of they public service and hike they tax be a necessary consequence of the international bailout .
as the greek prime minister george papandreou look out from he parliamentary office , he see exactly how angry they be .
we be all deeply shock by the unjust death of three of we citizen - citizen that be victim of a raw , murderous act , '' mr papandreou say .
a professor of economics at the university of athen , yani varoufakis , do not go to work today because it be not safe .
but he ride he bicycle into the city to survey the aftermath of the day mass demonstration .
what i do witness be the battlefield after the troops have depart , '' he say .
there be a few still burn or smoke car , a couple of fire engine that have be torch , a building that belong to the finance ministry - not far away from home - be completely burn down .
otherwise , it be a empty city without people . '' .
professor varoufakis blame angry youth for the violence and death .
it seem it be a large demonstration , which unfortunately be infiltrate by the usual band of 100 or 200 professional -lsb- trouble - maker -rsb- , '' he say .
they the one who create the circumstance for the death , the tragic death and loss of those three people . '' .
but professor varoufakis say there be a very deep sense of injustice across greece .
in the foreign media , even the local media , there be a portrayal of the greek people live above they means , who be lazy , who be not work .
the truth , as always , be quite different from appearance , '' he say .
this be a country of incredibly hard - work people , people who have two and three job in order to make end meet .
greece be also a country with the highest degree of poverty outside of latvia in the whole of europe , not just the eurozone , and it be a country in which a great deal of money be make over the last 10 - 20 year , but it be highly concentrate in a very small percentage of the population .
the rest have be struggle through the good time , through time of economic growth , to survive .
not to have a good life but just to survive , and they be the one who now have to foot the bill for the economic collapse . '' .
as athen burn , many in berlin be still fume about have to foot most of the bill for greek profligacy .
german chancellor angela merkel address parliament , raise she voice above the catcall and angry heckler from the opposition party .
this be about nothing less than the future of europe and with it the future of germany in europe , '' she say .
approval rating for the chancellor have drop six point since the aid package for greece be announce .
ms merkel might pay a higher political price on the weekend when crucial regional election be hold .
senior trooper william hakim , a bomb squad technician with the oregon state police , and capt. tom tennant of the woodburn police department be kill when a bomb explode at a west coast bank branch .
greek anti - austerity march erupt in violence , 3 dead .
wed may 5 , 2010 7 : 12pm bst .
three people , one of they a pregnant woman , be kill when greek protest against government austerity measure throw petrol bomb at a bank in athen on wednesday .
ten of thousand of striking worker and civil servant take to the street and mask youth clash with police in riot gear , who respond with steady round of tear gas and flash bomb which cloud the city centre .
it be the worst violence to hit greece since riot in 2008 .
the violence be a blow to prime minister george papandreou plan to push through tough budget cut demand by the european union and international monetary fund in exchange for a 110 billion euro -lrb- 93 . 6 billion pound -rrb- aid package unveil on sunday .
police say two woman and one man , between 30 and 40 year old , work for a marfin bank branch choke on smoke after protester break the window of a commercial building on central stadiou avenue and toss in molotov cocktail .
marfin bank official tell reuter one of the female victim be pregnant .
fireman have to restrain a distraught elderly woman outside the bank , who weep and cry my child , my child . '' .
papandreou express shock at the death and vow to bring those responsible to justice .
we be deeply shock by the unjust death of these three people , we fellow citizen , who be victim of a murderous act , '' he tell parliament .
he also defend he austerity plan , which foresee 30 billion euro in savings mainly from cut in wages and pension , and say the government would not abandon its drive to save the country from ruin .
we take these decision to save the country , '' he say .
the alternative would be bankruptcy . '' .
biggest protest .
protester try to storm parliament but be push back by riot police shortly before it start to debate the austerity bill .
opposition conservative be refuse to support it , but the government , which enjoy a comfortable majority , hope to pass it by the end of the week .
police put the march , to mark a 24 - hour nationwide strike , at roughly 30 , 000 people .
but witness say there be more than 50 , 000 - - easily the biggest protest since papandreou take office last october and launch effort to reform a economy that be uncompetitive and plague by corruption .
hundred of black - hooded anarchist roam the street , smash store window and hacking chunk of marble off building to throw at police .
although they be behind the worst of the violence , other protester join they in pelt police with bottle , shout thief ! '' .
presidential guard , who usually stand immobile in front of the assembly building , leave they post as the clash worsen .
we country be on the edge of the abyss , '' greek president karolo papoulia say in a statement .
we be all responsible so that it do not take the step into the void . '' .
the marcher have disperse by late afternoon , leave street litter with burn out garbage container .
dozen of shop window be smash , include a bookstore near the burnt bank .
two other building besides the bank be set on fire .
police say 18 people have be injure in the violence and 12 arrest for carry weapon and resist authority .
blow to government .
the eu and imf aid be intend to calm market and give the government time to overhaul the economy and bring down a deficit that total 13 . 6 percent of national economic output last year .
but the euro currency and greek asset have be pummel by concern that social unrest could thwart government plan to push through the measure , and on fear that greece woe could spread to other euro zone country such as portugal and spain .
in past month anti - austerity protest have be fairly peaceful , but wednesday violence be similar to that see in the december 2008 riot , which break out when police kill a teenager and drag on for week .
wednesday strike ground flight , shut shop and bring public transport to a standstill and the main public sector union adedy say it be plan more walkout for next week .
the big participation in the strike today and the crowd that flood the street of athen ... ... ... send a message to the government : we will not let the eu and the imf measure pass , '' say ilia vrettako , deputy head of the union .
apostolo kolokythopoulo , a 70 - year old pensioner who live on less than 1 , 000 euro a month , say the walkout be need to force the government to change course .
i agree with the strike .
if people not react , not protest , how will thing change ? '' he say .
centre - leave daily eleftherotypia warn young greek would rise up if nothing be do to give they hope of a future .
if nothing be do , the explosion of the angry and the disappointed will sweep everything away , '' the paper say .
have we forget december 2008 and become complacent ? '' .
greek prime minister call bank worker riot death murder .
publish may 05 , 2010 .
the greek prime minister have denounce what he call the murder of three bank worker kill when the building they be in be torch during protest in athen against harsh new austerity measure .
prime minister george papandreou vow wednesday that those responsible for the death would be find and bring to justice .
he tell parliament that a demonstration be one thing and murder be quite another . '' .
the two woman and a man be kill during demonstration by ten of thousand who march through athen .
the national strike be hold to protest the austerity measure announce last weekend so that greece can get a 144 billion bailout from the international monetary fund and other european nation .
three people die when a athens bank go up in flame wednesday as ten of thousand of greek take to the street to protest harsh spending cut aim at save the country from bankruptcy .
the fire brigade say the body be find in the wreckage of a marfin bank branch , on the route of the march in the city center .
demonstrator chant thief , thief attempt to break through a riot police cordon guard parliament and chase the ceremonial guard away from the tomb of the unknown soldier in front of the building .
a estimate 100 , 000 people take to the street as part of nationwide strike to protest austerity measure impose as a condition of bailout loan from the international monetary fund and other eurozone government .
the bailout be need to keep heavily indebted greece from default on its debt .
the loan be aim at prevent athen debt trouble from become a wider crisis for the euro by engulf other financially troubled country such as spain and portugal .
but the rioting underline skepticism that the greek government could keep up its end of the bargain , help drive the euro below 1 . 29 for the first time in over a year .
union reaction until now have be relatively muted by greece volatile standard , although the country have be hit by a series of strike .
but anger have mount after the announcement of new austerity measure , which be essential to unlock the loan .
papandreou on sunday announce cut in salary and pension for civil servant , and another round of consumer tax increase , as a condition of the bailout .
in germany , chancellor angela merkel urge parliament to quickly pass the country share of the bailout - - 22 billion euro over three year .
the goal be passage by friday ; greece face a may 19 due date on debt it say it not repay without the bailout .
nothing less than the future of europe , and with that the future of germany in europe , be at stake , '' merkel tell lawmaker .
we be at a fork in the road . '' .
extensive clash take place a broad swathe of central athen , with hundred of people batter store front and smash pave stone to throw at the police , who respond with stun grenade and volley of tear gas that leave cloud of smoke hover over the street .
violence also break out in the northern city of thessaloniki , where another 20 , 000 people march through the city center , with youth smash window of store and fast food restaurant .
the outpouring of anger appear much more spontaneous than the frequent set piece battle between police and anarchist youth who often spark violence during greek demonstration .
the march come amid a 24 - hour nationwide general strike that ground all flight to and from greece , shut down port , school and government service and leave hospital work with emergency medical staff .
the acropolis and all other ancient site be close , while journalist also walk off the job , suspend television and radio news broadcast .
some media - - include state television and the ta nea newspaper web site - - break the strike to report on the death .
greek union concede that the cash - strapped government be force to increase consumer tax and slash spending , include cut salary and pension for civil servant .
but they say low - income greek will suffer disproportionately from the measure , which aim to save 40 billion - - the country current budget deficit - - through 2012 .
these people be lose they rights , they be lose they future , '' say yiannis panagopoulo , head of gsee , one of the two largest union organization .
the country can surrender without a fight . '' .
imf head dominique strauss - kahn warn that the crisis could spread to other country despite the rescue package effort to contain it .
everyone must remain extremely vigilant , '' to this risk , strauss - kahn say in a interview publish in french newspaper le parisien wednesday .
i completely understand the greek population anger , its incomprehension at the size of the economic catastrophe , '' strauss - kahn say .
but greek must also understand that without these measure , the situation would be infinitely more serious , '' he say .
those who be feel the crunch be outrage that they have to pay for what they see as politician mismanagement of they country economy .
will be on the street every day , every day !
you never win unless you fight , '' say 76 - year - old constantino doganis , who get euro345 a month from he farm pension fund .
it we fault too , all the mistake make by politician over 30 year , all the people who cheat on they tax , '' he say .
but they be behave like buzzard - - the german borrow money at 3 percent and then lend it to we for 5 .
why ? '' .
despite the strike , the draft bill of the new austerity measure be to be vote on thursday .
prime minister george papandreou socialist hold a comfortable majority of 160 in the 300 - seat parliament , and with a simple majority of 151 vote need , the bill be expect to be pass easily .
the bush administration be reduce protection for endanger animal and plant .
just six week before democratic president-elect barack obama take office , the current republican administration be change endanger species regulation .
some mandatory , independent review that government scientist have perform for 35 year be be eliminate .
the scientist ' advice from such review can delay or block dam , highway and other project .
the new rule will take effect in about 30 day .
the rule also prohibit federal agency from evaluate the effect on endanger species and the place they live from a project 's contribution to increase global warming .
obama have promise to reverse the new rule .
congress also could overturn they .
president barack obama overturn bush administration ruling on endanger species act .
wednesday , march 4 , 2009 , 10 : 53 be .
president barack obama announce plan tuesday to resume full scientific review of project that might harm endanger wildlife and plant .
the president sign a memorandum put on hold a bush administration regulation allow agency to avoid scientific review in endanger species decision .
during a visit to the interior department , obama say the review process have be undermine by past administration .
for more than three decade , the endanger species act have successfully protect we nation most threaten wildlife .
we should be look for way to improve it , not weaken it , '' obama say .
obama action put the bush regulation on hold until the interior and commerce department complete a review .
while on the campaign trail , obama say he would fight to maintain the protection of the endanger species act and work to undo what be then a proposal by the bush administration .
the rule , finalize in december , make optional the mandatory , independent consultation federal scientist have perform for 35 year on project .
the review have be blame by developer and federal agency for delay and cost increase .
instead , the bush rule allow federal agency to decide for themselves whether project such as dam and power plant pose risk to endanger species or the place they live .
these change , which be complete in a relatively short time , be describe at the time by the bush administration as minor .
but democrat and environmentalist have argue that the regulation overhaul long - stand policy .
democratic leader in congress who have be attempt to reverse the rule applaud the president decision .
i wholeheartedly support the president proposal to restore the protection for endanger species that the bush administration spend so many year try to undermine , '' say rep . nick rahall , d - w . va . , who chair the house natural resource committee .
rahall be push to overturn the rule through a congressional resolution .
there be also a provision tuck into the 410 billion spending bill the house pass last week that would allow the interior and commerce secretary to withdraw regulation .
since the rule take effect before obama be swear in , overturn it through regulation would require a lengthy review process .
industry and business representative say restore scientific input would only delay project , include those that will be fund by the recently pass stimulus package .
but obama , in announce he decision , say that economic recovery and protect the environment be not at odds with one another .
we can grow we economy today , '' obama say , and preserve the environment for ourselves and we child and we grandchild . '' .
scientific consultation under endanger species act restore .
washington , dc , april 28 , 2009 .
the obama administration today revoke a eleventh - hour bush - era rule that undermine protection for plant and animal list as threaten or endanger under the endanger species act .
pass in january 2009 , the bush - era rule lift the requirement that federal agency consult wildlife expert with the u . s . fish and wildlife service or the national oceanic and atmospheric administration before take action that could harm list species .
the bush move allow federal agency to decide for themselves if they own project , such as road , dam and mine , would hurt species .
secretary of commerce gary locke and secretary of the interior ken salazar , who head the two agency that administer the endanger species act , say they decision to again require consultation before action be base on sound science .
by roll back this 11th hour regulation , we be ensure that threaten and endanger species continue to receive the full protection of the law , '' salazar say .
because science must serve as the foundation for decision we make , federal agency propose to take action that might affect threaten and endanger species will once again have to consult with biologist at the two department , '' he say .
for decade , the endanger species act have protect threaten species and they habitat , '' say locke .
we decision affirm the administration commitment to use sound science to promote conservation and protect the environment . '' .
in march , president barack obama direct the secretary to review the previous administration section 7 regulation of the endanger species act , which govern interagency consultation .
congress , in the 2009 omnibus appropriation act , specifically authorize the secretary to revoke the regulation .
locke and salazar say the two department will conduct a joint review of the 1986 consultation regulation that be now once again in effect to determine if any improvement should be propose .
the endanger species act be sign into law in 1973 to protect imperil species from extinction , as well as conserve the ecosystem and habitat necessary for they survival .
today there be 1 , 009 species in the united state list as endanger under the act - 409 animal and 600 plant .
a additional 162 animal and 146 plant be list as threaten .
environmentalist and scientist who have lobby against make consultation discretionary be please with the decision .
betsy loyless , national audubon society senior vice president for advocacy and policy , say , the obama administration have give a great gift to wildlife and to future generation .
once again , we nation will follow the letter of the law and the advice of its own best expert before jeopardize the future of threaten and endanger species . '' .
the decision come as president obama prepare to mark he first 100 day in office on wednesday .
loyless say , the president have cap he first hundred day with a serious step toward restore we commitment to this nation great natural heritage . '' .
last friday , 1 , 300 biologist and three scientific society represent some 20 , 000 scientist - the ornithological council , society for conservation biology and the wildlife society - send separate letter to the interior and commerce department urge they to overturn the last - minute bush rule change .
many federal agency do not have the scientific expertise to determine the consequence of federal project on endanger species and may have vest interest in the implementation of a project , '' say stuart pimm , dori duke professor of conservation ecology at duke university , who help organize the scientist letter .
pimm say the bush rule exclude from the process expert scientist who for decade have provide impartial review and critical analysis of proposed project .
alan thornhill , a ecologist and executive director of the society for conservation biology , say , as the threat we face continue to evolve , federal scientist must be able to evaluate they consequence for imperil species .
put boundary on the science that inform the endanger species act fundamentally undermine the ability of science and scientist to protect we nation biodiversity . '' .
politics play a huge role in such decision , '' say michael hutchin , executive director and chief executive of the wildlife society .
expert review and oversight be critical . '' .
francesca grifo , director of union of concerned scientist scientific integrity program , say lift the requirement for consultation be one of a number of way the bush administration weaken the act , and more work remain to be do .
several last - minute bush administration regulatory change have undermine the scientific foundation of the endanger species act , and today the obama administration have begin to repair the damage , '' she say .
the message from ten of thousand of scientist around the country be clear - these unwarranted change fundamentally undermine we ability to protect imperil plant and animal . '' .
today , the obama administration restore critical check and balance to protect we nation biodiversity , '' say grifo .
but there be much more to be do .
the obama administration must thoroughly review how science be use to ensure that we nation imperil species have a chance to survive - and thrive . '' .
obama white house reverse bush rule on protection of endanger species .
 interior and commerce department agree .
 government wildlife expert to be consult on development .
tuesday 28 april 2009 22 . 34 bst .
the obama administration overturn one of the most controversial environmental measure of the george bush era today , strike down a rule that have weaken protection for endanger species .
official at the interior and commerce ministry say they have return to a requirement that government wildlife expert sign off on any new development - mining , log or road construction - that could hurt animal , fish or plant that be at risk of go extinct .
today move be the latest in a series of declaration by obama official mean to chip away at the bush environmental legacy .
a number of those measure be put in place in the final hour of the bush administration , in what become know as midnight regulation .
until last december , developer have be require for more than two decade to get approval from government wildlife expert before embark on new project .
but the bush administration in its final day bring in a rule leave it up to business to consult with government biologist on the impact of new development .
environmentalist have accuse bush of effectively gut protection for threaten or endanger species , and activist have send more than 70 , 000 petition to official in the obama administration urge they to cancel the midnight regulation .
in a statement , the commerce secretary , gary locke , and the interior secretary , ken salazar , agree .
after a scientific review order by obama last month , they say they have reach the conclusion that such protection be indeed necessary .
by roll back this 11th hour regulation we be ensure that threaten and endanger species continue to receive the full protection of the law , the two man say in a statement .
federal agency propose to take action that might affect threaten and endanger species will once again have to consult with biologist . '' .
there be no word on another so - call midnight regulation that undermine protection for polar bear , a omission criticise by some activist today .
the move , which have be anticipate , come just 24 hour after salazar take step against another midnight regulation .
the interior secretary say he would ask the court to overturn a last - minute rule that make it easier for coal mining operation engage in mountaintop removal to dump dirt near stream .
obama overturn bush midnight rule on science , health care .
mar 5 , 2009 .
controversial ruling enact in the 11th hour by the bush administration be be examine for policy and legal implication by the obama administration .
several regulation affect health care and the environment have be overturn .
in he final month in office , former president george w . bush enact several highly controversial policy that affect health care and wildlife .
in just a little over a month in office , president barack obama have sideline or overturn several of they , and have also reach back over the year to reverse policy enact during bush '' s first term .
a bush administration draft plan to allow oil and gas drilling off the atlantic and pacific coast be sideline by the obama administration on feb . 10 .
to establish a orderly process that allow we to make wise decision base on sound information , we need to set aside the plan , say new interior secretary ken salazar who extend the public comment period on offshore drilling by six month .
obama have maintain that expand offshore drilling should be part of a larger energy blueprint develop out in the open with congress , not within the department of commerce and interior department alone .
on feb . 27 , the obama administration announce its intention to reverse the so - call '' medical conscience '' rule , follow a 30 - day comment period .
the rule give health care worker the right to refuse to participate in service they consider immoral .
the rule be vaguely word and extend the right to refuse service to everyone from receptionist and janitor to hospital executive and insurance company ceo .
opponent consider the rule , which take effect the day before obama '' s inauguration , a thinly veil maneuver to limit access to legal abortion , contraceptive , and living will directive .
on march 3 , obama overturn another 11th hour bush regulation that weaken the endanger species act and pit federal agency against each other .
the regulation allow federal agency to sidestep scientific evidence gather by u . s . fish and wildlife service and national marine fishery service expert when launch construction project that impact endanger wildlife .
when overturn the regulation , obama say he be restore the scientific process to its rightful place at the heart of the endanger species act , a process undermine by past administration . '' .
the obama administration will also move quickly to reverse some older bush ruling .
on january 30 , obama sign a executive order rescind a 2001 bush policy change that bar u . s . financial aid to international organization that provide or promote abortion .
first implement by president reagan and call the '' mexico city '' rule , the policy be reverse whenever there be a change in ideology in the white house .
obama say the policy toward international family planning have be use as a political wedge issue . '' .
he say he administration would '' initiate a fresh conversation on family planning , work to find area of common ground to best meet the need of woman and family at home and around the world . '' .
the obama administration plan to head off many of bush '' s midnight hour rule still in the pipeline before they take effect .
on inauguration day , federal agency head be send a memo state that they should freeze all bush regulation in the pipeline .
office of management and budget director peter orszag follow up with a jan . 21 memo give agency head these option for deal with bush - era '' rule which raise substantial question of law or policy : '' extend the effective date of a rule , reopen the notice and comment period , issue interim final rule , and decide not to defend court challenge to bush administration rule .
for a partial list of bush '' s midnight regulation and they current status , visit propublica .
with just over a month remain in office , the bush administration loosen federal protection of plant and animal species threaten with extinction .
on thursday , the interior department announce a change to section 7 of the endanger species act , which require federal agency to consult with scientist at the fish and wildlife service or the national marine fishery service to determine whether a project be likely to affect any list species .
under the new rule , federal agency such as the federal highway administration can in many case simply check with they own personnel to determine if they activity will harm any of the 1,247 animal and 747 plant species list as endanger or threaten .
'' the rule strengthen the regulation so the government can focus on protect endanger species as it strive to rebuild the american economy , '' say secretary of the interior dirk kempthorne .
it start with the polar bear .
the rule change have its origin in a may announcement by the interior department that list the polar bear as threaten because global warming be melt its habitat .
it be the first animal to be list because of climate change .
in that announcement , interior secretary dirk kempthorne say that even though global climate change be the reason that the bear be on the endanger species list in the first place , that list be '' not the means , nor the method , nor the vehicle by which you can deal with global climate change . '' .
the interior department 's press release cite a may editorial from the washington post that endorse this view .
that mr. kempthorne have to contort he agency to ensure that it do not get drag into set we climate policy be simply more proof of the need for such a policy , support by the white house and ratify by congress , that aim at sharply reduce greenhouse-gas emission .
though the polar bear deserve protection , the endanger species act be not the means and the fish and wildlife service be not the agency to arrest global warming .
the release quote the second sentence of that paragraph .
so under the new rule , federal agency that be undertake a project need not check with fish and wildlife or national marine fishery under these circumstance .
where the action have no effect on a list species or critical habitat , or .
where the action be wholly beneficial , or .
where the effect of the action can not be measure or detect in a manner that permit meaningful evaluation use the best available science , or .
where the effect of the action be the result of global process and can not be reliably predict or measure on the scale of species current range , or would result in a insignificant impact to a list species , or be such that the potential risk of harm to a species be remote .
reaction .
environmentalist be less than thrill by this rule change .
andrew wetzler , director of the natural resource defense council 's endanger species program , say he organization will probably sue .
'' this administration have reject anything with a whiff of science .
so before sulk out the back door , they be go after rule that require fish and wildlife service scientist to prevent harm to we last wild animal and place .
despite today 's feel-good statement , we remain convinced that these change be illegal .
we will look at the final language when it be publish tomorrow , but i think we will see they in court . '' .
defender of the wildlife , who have file suit along with greenpeace and the center for biological diversity , be similarly disgust by the bush administration 's action .
'' this administration 's disdain for wildlife and the environment have never be more clear than it be today , '' say jamie rappaport clark , executive vice president of defender of wildlife and former director of the fish and wildlife service .
'' for 35 year , the endanger species act have help save and recover imperil wildlife on the brink of extinction .
now , with this administration face its last day , they be do everything they can to cement they anti-environmental legacy before the obama administration take office . '' .
the we chamber of commerce welcome the rule change .
reversible ?
obama say that he intend to reverse the rule change , along with other '' midnight rule '' make in the wane day of the bush presidency .
but that may be easier say than do .
propublica , a nonprofit investigative news organization , note that while last-minute rule that have not yet take effect can be quickly reverse by obama 's appointee or by executive order , rule that be in force when he take office can not .
rescind a rule would require the new administration to restart the rulemaking process , which can take year and prompt legal challenge .
another strategy that have be talk about lately - get congress to disapprove the rule through the congressional review act - carry political risk and have be use only once before .
the new endanger species rule take effect nine day before obama 's inauguration .
there be still a chance that the rule could be quickly reverse , however .
usa today report that rep. nick rahall -lrb- d -rrb- of west virginia , the chairman of the house natural resource committee , say that he will likely invoke the congressional review act , a rarely use law that give congress 60 day to review and overrule regulation issue by government agency .
apr 28 .
obama administration restore endanger species act protection !
today , interior secretary ken salazar and commerce secretary gary locke announce the restoration of rule under the endanger species act that help protect endanger species when government decision or project be implement .
the rule be weaken in the final day of the bush administration .
the department of interior send out this press release announce the decision today .
they decision require federal agency to once again consult with federal wildlife expert at the u . s . fish and wildlife service and the national oceanic and atmospheric administration before take any action that may affect threaten or endanger species .
the action will restore a important check - and - balance system that enable government project to move forward and at the same time protect at - risk species .
the restoration of these protection be amazing news for we country '' s wildlife , fish and plant on the brink of extinction .
make this decision within the first 100 day of office be also a important symbol that america will once again respect science and environmental protection .
the endanger species coalition be incredibly grateful to president obama , secretary locke and secretary salazar for they leadership on address the urgent environmental issue of species extinction and global warming .
for more information , check out the esc statement .
the interior department yesterday finalize rule change the way it administer the endanger species act , enable other government agency to decide on they own whether a project would harm a imperil species without a independent scientific review .
interior secretary dirk kempthorne call the move '' a clarification '' he consider essential in order to narrow the law 's reach .
'' the rule strengthen the regulation so the government can focus on protect endanger species as it strive to rebuild the american economy , '' kempthorne say , add that agency can bypass a review by either the fish and wildlife service or the national oceanic and atmospheric administration only '' in specific and limited instance where a action be not anticipate to harass , harm or kill a protected species . '' .
dale hall , who direct the fish and wildlife service , say the change do not mean that agency could build dam , road or other project without take into account the consequence .
'' the agency still have the full responsibility to make that decision and to defend that decision , '' hall say , note that the loss of a imperil species , know as '' take , '' carry legal penalty .
'' they be still liable for take , if take occur . '' .
hall say he be initially concern about '' the compress time frame '' in which the agency push through the rule change , which be unveil in august , but he add that he do not '' see any harm '' in kempthorne 's final decision .
interior go ahead with the rule change one day after the environmental protection agency drop two other controversial rule change , say they have come along too late in president bush 's term white house spokesman tony fratto say the reason be that the administration have '' publicly and clearly state we intention '' to enact the endanger species measure well before a self-imposed deadline on eleventh-hour rule change .
the agency receive nearly 235,000 comment on the endanger species proposal , at least 208,000 of which be form letter decry the rule .
congressional democrat and environmentalist sharply criticize the administration for the interior department action .
'' as the bush administration fade off into the sunset , it continue to take brazen pot shot at everything in sight , include america 's landmark conservation law , the endanger species act , '' say house resource committee chairman nick j. rahall ii -lrb- d-w -rrb- , who say he would introduce legislation seek to overturn the rule next year .
separately yesterday , interior issue a finding limit the protection that could be invoke to protect polar bear , which be list as a threaten species this year , on the grounds that the bear be already protect under the marine mammal protection act .
the finding mean that the bear ' protected status could not be use to block activity such as oil and gas development outside they alaska habitat .
'' we do not believe the science be there to make the causal link between activity in the lower 48 to the take of a polar bear , '' kempthorne say .
'' to finally admit that the science compel the listing of the polar bear as threaten due to global warming , but then deny it the protection the endanger species act should provide , be nothing other than irresponsible and shameful , '' say jamie rappaport clark , executive vice president of the advocacy group defender of wildlife , add that she group would sue to overturn the rule .
update 8 : 41 p . m . est , tue march 3 , 2009 .
obama overturn bush endanger species rule .
president obama on tuesday overturn a last - minute bush administration regulation that many environmentalist claim weaken the endanger species act .
the regulation , issue a few week before george w . bush left office , make it easier for federal agency to skip consultation with government scientist before launch project that could affect endanger wildlife .
by overturn the regulation , obama say during a enthusiastic reception at the interior department , he have restore the scientific process to its rightful place at the heart of the endanger species act , a process undermine by past administration . '' .
under the bush administration rule , there be no need for a federal agency to consult with the u . s . fish and wildlife service or the national marine fishery service if that agency determine that no harm would come to a endanger species as a result of its project .
but the determination of what no harm mean rest with agency bureaucrat instead of scientist .
obama issue a memorandum that effectively suspend the regulation while order a review to determine whether it promote the purpose of the -lsb- endanger species act -rsb- . '' .
the work of scientist and expert in my administration , include right here in the interior department , will be respect , '' obama say .
for more than three decade , the endanger species act have successfully protect we nation most threaten wildlife , and we should be look for way to improve it , not weaken it . '' .
environmental group be quick to praise obama action .
president obama announcement will allow -lsb- the endanger species act -rsb- to do what it be intend : protect we nation endanger plant and animal , '' say andrew wetzler , director of the natural resource defense council endanger species program .
reverse the bush administration midnight action will restore protection for we last wild place and species . '' .
obama also help celebrate the 160th anniversary of the interior department on tuesday .
throughout we history , there be a tension between those who seek to conserve we natural resource for the benefit of future generation and those who have seek to profit from these resource , '' he tell department employee .
but be here to tell you this be a false choice .
with smart , sustainable policy , we can grow we economy today and preserve the environment for ourselves , we child and we grandchild . '' .
interior secretary dirk kempthorne announce major change thursday to the endanger species act , cause environmental group to charge that the '' midnight rule '' set to go into effect before president-elect barack obama take office be intend to eviscerate the nation 's premier wildlife-protection law .
the regulation eliminate a requirement that federal agency seek review by government scientist before approve log , mining and construction project to make sure the activity do not endanger rare animal and plant .
in addition , the regulation say the law could not be use to protect polar bear , walrus , mountain frog and other species vulnerable to the effect of global warming .
'' the bush administration be use this to go after we most imperil wildlife and kick they when they be down , '' say janette brimmer , a attorney with earthjustice , a environmental group .
'' the act be we nation 's most important law for protect wildlife like wolf , grizzly , salmon and lynx . '' .
reid cherlin , a spokesman for the obama-biden transition team , say , '' president-elect obama will review all 11th-hour regulation and will address they once he take office . '' .
obama have say he do not favor change the endanger species act .
kempthorne , at a news conference in washington , say that he know change to the act would evoke controversy but that he be certain the new rule would clear up confusion over the law that have exist for year .
'' nothing in the regulation relieve a federal agency of its responsibility to ensure that species be not harm , '' he say .
law cover 1,400 species .
the law protect 1,400 species .
in the last eight year , there have be a slowdown in add new plant and animal , build a backlog of hundred of species wait for scientific review and approval , include california 's furry pacific fisher and sierra nevada yellow-legged frog .
the interior department propose the new regulation in may and since have receive nearly 300,000 comment , the vast majority oppose the change .
hour after thursday 's announcement , three environmental group , greenpeace , defender of wildlife and center for biological diversity , file a lawsuit in u.s. district court in san francisco seek to halt regulation that they say be inconsistent with the act .
the regulation do not require federal agency to seek consultation with u.s. fish and wildlife service and national marine fishery service before approve project , the lawsuit say .
in congress , rep. edward markey , d-mass , call a hearing to review the regulation and say member would work to restore the act rep. nick rahall , d-w , say member may try to eliminate the regulation by use a special congressional act that allow the review of newly adopt administrative rule .
part of the new regulation prohibit regulator from take into account the effect of greenhouse gas on habitat and on species .
kempthorne say he legal adviser conclude that consider global warm a threat to the survival of the polar bear would require tracking emission to a particular factory and determine how that would melt arctic ice and harm the bear .
'' that be completely wrong , and they be just make that up , '' say attorney kassie siegel of the center for biological diversity , which be sue the federal government in a attempt to protect polar bear .
federal agency be suppose to look at source of greenhouse gas from project they approve , then analyze way to reduce those emission , siegel say .
'' there be no requirement to trace any molecule of ddt to the thin of bald eagle egg just as there be no requirement to trace any molecule of carbon dioxide to the death of any particular polar bear , '' she say .
in california , the requirement to consult with government biologist before construction project be particularly crucial , say mark rockwell , california state representative of the endanger species coalition , a alliance of 50 environmental , business , hunting and fish and religious group in the state .
the u.s. forest service approve log plan that might affect coastal coho salmon and steelhead , marbled murrelet and pacific fisher on national forest .
the u.s. army corps of engineer give permit for fill wetland .
without the requirement , there be no incentive for the agency to seek consultation and a biological opinion , rockwell say .
for example , the bureau of reclamation be force by the current requirement to seek biological opinion on whether the amount of water be divert from the southern part of the sacramento-san joaquin river delta would hurt the delta smell or harm chinook salmon .
protection find lack .
environmental group challenge opinion that water flow for the fish be adequate , and win decision agree that the protection be indeed lack in the plan .
'' it be the biological opinion that lead to the challenge , '' rockwell say .
'' if you do not have a opinion , you have nothing to challenge . '' .
under the new regulation , the federal agency would have the discretion of decide whether or not to ask for a consultation and opinion , rockwell say .
april 27 , 2009 . .
biologist call on obama administration to overturn bush rule that cut science out of endanger species legislation .
interior and commerce secretary must act by may 9 .
more than 1 , 300 federal and independent scientist with biological expertise and three lead scientific society today call on the interior and commerce department to overturn rule change make in january that weaken the scientific foundation of the endanger species act .
in a letter , the scientist urge the department secretary to rescind change to endanger species act regulation that allow federal agency to decide for themselves if they own project as road , dam and mine threaten imperil species .
previously , federal agency be require to consult with biologist at the u . s . fish and wildlife service or national marine fishery service before undertake or permit project .
many federal agency do not have the scientific expertise to determine the consequence of federal project on endanger species and may have vest interest in the implementation of a project , '' say stuart pimm , dori duke professor of conservation ecology at duke university , who help organize the scientist letter .
the new rule exclude expert scientist for decade have provide impartial review and critical analysis the process . '' .
the ornithological council , society for conservation biology and the wildlife society , which collectively represent more than 20 , 000 scientist , also send a letter today ask the interior and commerce secretary to rescind the change and make other improvement to the scientific base of the endanger species act .
as the threat we face continue to evolve , federal scientist must be able to evaluate they consequence for imperil species .
put boundary on the science that inform the endanger species act fundamentally undermine the ability of science and scientist to protect we nation biodiversity , '' say alan thornhill , a ecologist and executive director of the society for conservation biology .
politics play a huge role in such decision , '' say michael hutchin , executive director and ceo of the wildlife society .
expert review and oversight be critical . '' .
the rule generate concern when they be hastily push through at the end of the last administration with little discussion or debate .
the obama administration have address the rule change , but have not formally overturn it .
on march 3 , president obama direct the commerce and interior department to review it , state that we should be look at way to strengthen -lsb- the endanger species act -rsb- not weaken it . '' .
president obama also direct federal agency to continue consult with scientist on project that might harm endanger species .
congress also have take step to address the problem .
a provision in a omnibus spending bill sign by president obama on march 11 allow interior secretary ken salazar and commerce secretary gary locke to rescind the rule change within 60 day .
secretary salazar have say publicly that he be concern about the rule change , but have not indicate that he will act by the may 9 deadline .
on friday , it be report that the interior department send a rule to the white house office of management and budget that address the interagency review process but not other part of the rule that the scientist want repeal , particularly the limit on what kind of information can be use in determine how to protect the polar bear .
the content of the rule be not release .
the two letter also urge the administration to take a more comprehensive look at how science can better inform decision - make under the endanger species act .
accord to the scientist , other recent change create unrealistic deadline for scientific consultation and limit the type of information federal scientist can consider when evaluate federal project .
these change chop down the role of science in governmental decision - make , leave less than a stump behind .
the loss of science translate into real loss of biodiversity , '' say francesca grifo , a biodiversity expert and director of the union of concerned scientist scientific integrity program .
the new rule weaken the scientific foundation of the endanger species act and make it easier to base decision on politics instead of science .
in give the department the authority to roll back these rule , congress have give the american people a gift , and the department secretary need to open it . '' .
the bush administration issue two late-term regulation on thursday that environmentalist say weaken federal protection for endanger species but that interior department official defend as block a '' back-door '' attempt to regulate emission that contribute to global warming .
conservation group sue to block the new rule , reignite a fight over so-called midnight regulation that have seem to die down a day earlier when the administration decline to impose looser air pollution rule that environmentalist have fear .
previously , federal agency be require to consult with scientist who specialize in particular species before proceed with a project like a road or dam .
the project could not go forward unless the specialist certify that no harm would come to endanger plant or wildlife .
the rule announce thursday would allow federal agency to bypass those scientist in some case if the agency determine that the endanger species would not be harm .
the revision be finalize after four month of deliberation and over the objection of what official say be the bulk of nearly 235,000 public comment on the change .
the update rule also bar agency from stop a project because its emission might contribute to global warming .
opponent call the change particularly objectionable for the polar bear , which have see its habitat shrink as arctic ice cap melt .
the government declare polar bear a threaten species this year .
interior secretary dirk kempthorne call the rule change '' narrow '' and a '' common-sense '' approach to species protection .
he stress that agency could still consult with species scientist if they choose , and he reiterate he belief that climate change regulation be a '' wholly inappropriate use of the endanger species act . '' .
kempthorne acknowledge internal debate over the change , but he and other administration official say they tweak the rule in response to public comment .
environmental group pan they anyway .
janette brimmer , a attorney with earthjustice , say the administration be '' use global warming as a stalk horse to undo species protection on a broad scale . '' .
andrew wetzler , director of the natural resource defense council 's endanger species program , be blunt .
'' we will see they in court . '' .
environmentalist have tussle with the administration in its wane day over oil and gas drilling lease near national park and oil shale development across the western u.s .
they cheer wednesday , however , when the environmental protection agency say it would not revise two air pollution standard .
white house official say they have work hard to minimize the kind of end-of-term rulemaking that president bill clinton engage in heavily .
many of the late rule could be difficult for president-elect barack obama to overturn without in a lengthy process , though a little-used law could allow congress to void they .
the house select committee on energy independence and global warming hold a hearing on thursday into bush 's late energy and environmental rulemaking .
committee chairman rep. edward markey -lrb- d-mass -rrb- say the rule issue thursday show the administration be '' determine to use every last minute in office to wreak as much havoc as possible on we nation . '' .
kempthorne , for he part , sound keenly aware of time issue in a conference call with reporter , when he note he have 39 day leave in office .
ask if that give he pause for issue new rule , he reply .
'' do you think elus man should have leave the field five minute before the end of the last super bowl ? '' .
april 28 , 2009 . .
interior , commerce department overturn rule that cut science out of endanger species act .
statement by francesca grifo .
today , interior secretary ken salazar rescind eleventh - hour bush administration change to endanger species act regulation that allow federal agency to decide for themselves if they own project as road and would threaten imperil species .
federal agency again will be require to consult with expert biologist at the u . s . fish and wildlife service or national marine fishery service before undertake or permit new project .
the rule change be just one of several controversial bush administration action that undermine the scientific foundation of the endanger species act , accord to the union of concerned scientist -lrb- uc -rrb- .
in a related story , 1 , 300 biologist and three scientific society represent some 20 , 000 scientist send separate letter last friday to the interior and commerce department urge they to overturn the last - minute bush rule change .
below be a statement by francesca grifo , director of ucs scientific integrity program .
several last - minute bush administration regulatory change have undermine the scientific foundation of the endanger species act , and today the obama administration have begin to repair the damage .
the message from ten of thousand of scientist around the country be clear : these unwarranted change fundamentally undermine we ability to protect imperil plant and animal .
today , the obama administration restore critical check and balance to protect we nation biodiversity .
interior secretary salazar decision be a long - await first step .
but there be much more to be do .
the obama administration must thoroughly review how science be use to ensure that we nation imperil species have a chance to survive thrive . '' .
the we interior and commerce department report dec. 11 final propose change to the endanger species act , which interior secretary dirk a. kempthorne say be not as extensive as originally plan .
'' the rule strengthen the regulation so the government can focus on protect endanger species as it strive to rebuild the american economy , '' kempthorne say .
'' it have be revise since it be propose in august because the public make suggestion we could use to improve it , '' he say .
the propose change be schedule to appear in the dec. 12 federal register .
'' what we be do be clarify the threshold for consultation to occur .
if science can not draw a direct causal link between a action and a effect on a list species , as be currently the case for global process like climate change , than consultation under the esa be not necessary , '' kempthorne maintain .
congressional critic and environmental organization immediately criticize the proposal .
'' the bush administration appear to be determine to use every last minute in office to wreak as much havoc as possible on we nation , '' say edward j. markey -lrb- d-mass -rrb- , chairman of the house select committee on energy independence and global warming .
'' today 's announcement that they will be remove fish and wildlife expert from key decision to protect the safety of iconic animal like the polar bear from global warming 's effect be absurd and a recipe for disaster , '' markey say .
andrew wetzler , director of the natural resource defense council 's endanger species program , comment .
'' this administration have reject anything with a whiff of science , so before skulk out the back door they be go after rule that require -lsb- we -rsb- fish and wildlife service scientist to prevent harm to we last wild animal and place .
despite today 's feel-good statement , we remain convinced that these change be illegal .
we will look at the final language when it be publish tomorrow , but i think we will see they in court . '' .
scope of exception .
but kempthorne note that federal agency would be require to follow exist consultation procedure except in specific , limited instance where a propose action be not expect to have adverse impact on any member of a esa-listed species and would satisfy one of the following condition .
it must be wholly beneficial , have no effect on a list species or its critical habitat , have effect which could not be measure or detect in a manner that permit meaningful evaluation , or it must be the result of global process that can not be reliably predict or measure on the scale of the species ' current range .
agency still would be able to voluntarily engage in the consultation process , the secretary emphasize .
he say the final propose regulation contain fewer opportunity for agency to proceed without consultation than what be originally envision .
nothing in the proposal require that a federal agency bypass consultation , nor do it preclude any federal agency from seek the expertise of the fish and wildlife service and the national marine fishery service or from take advantage of expertise that may be available from state and local agency , university , nongovernment organization , or other source , accord to kempthorne .
any federal agency may avail itself of expertise offer by fw and nmf in exactly the same manner as under current regulation if it determine it have any limitation to make determination under the esa or believe that it do not have the scientific expertise to make a accurate assessment of a project 's impact on list species and critical habitat , he say .
moreover , nothing in the proposal relieve a agency of its responsibility to ensure that list species be not harm during completion of a federal action , regardless of whether consultation occur or not , kempthorne say .
in case where a action agency determine that consultation be not require and harm to a list species result , full civil and criminal penalty , as lay out by other section of the esa , remain in effect , he indicate .
obama reverse bush on species protection measure .
march 04 , 2009 .
in a move that will subject a number of government project to enhance environmental and scientific scrutiny , president obama be restore a requirement that u . s . agency consult with independent federal expert to determine whether they action might harm threaten and endanger species .
the presidential memorandum issue yesterday , which mark yet another reversal of former president george w . bush environmental legacy , will revive a decade - old practice under the endanger species act that call for agency to consult with either the fish and wildlife service or the national oceanic and atmospheric administration on whether they project could affect imperil species .
on dec . 16 , the bush administration allow agency to waive such review if they decide , on they own , that the action would not harm vulnerable plant and animal .
obama , who visit the interior department to commemorate its 160th anniversary , say he have instruct interior and commerce department official to review the bush rule .
in the meantime , accord to the memorandum , official should follow the prior longstanding consultation and concurrence practice that call for independent review .
the work of scientist and expert in my administration , include here at the interior department , will be respect , '' obama say .
with smart , sustainable policy , we can grow we economy today and preserve the environment . '' .
environmentalist and scientist welcome the move , but business official say it could delay federally funded project that could help revive the nation economy : all of they agree it would prompt a second look at several initiative adopt by the bush administration in its final month in office .
earthjustice lawyer janette brimmer , whose group have challenge the bush rule in federal district court in california , say she expect that the new administration would reexamine two pend project : a bureau of land management plan for oversee oregon forest , which be finalize on dec . 30 and could affect protected species such as the northern spotted owl ; and construction of the white pine coal - fire power plant in nevada .
i think the obama administration now be go to take a step back on these project .
it need to bring science back into the equation , '' brimmer say , add that she group will not drop its lawsuit until it can assess how the new policy be work .
francesca grifo of the union of concerned scientist , a activist group , say the switch would help guard against the potential conflict of interest and lack of expertise that could color decision - make by any agency hope to press ahead with a particular project .
after year of scientific scandal , the interior department and its partner agency need desperately to regain credibility by make decision with honesty , clarity and transparency , '' grifo say .
but william l . kovac , the u . s . chamber of commerce vice president of environment , technology and regulatory affair , say that revive another layer of review will result in even greater delay to project - - include stimulus - back , job - create project - - as agency now grapple with the prospect of lengthy interagency consultation to determine , for instance , if a bridge project in florida contribute to the melting of arctic ice .
this be such a departure from the spirit and the letter of the endanger species act that we wonder if the law drafter would even recognize it today . '' .
the latest policy shift follow several other administration action revamp environmental policy , include a reexamination of fuel economy standard and offshore oil drilling ; a new review of whether to grant california and other state the right to regulate greenhouse - gas emission from vehicle ; and the endorsement of a new international treaty negotiation on global mercury emission .
house natural resource committee chairman nick j . rahall ii -lrb- d - w . va . -rrb- , who have be seek to overturn bush endanger species rule through legislation , call the announcement one more indication that the new administration truly represent change for the better and be commit to the protection of we natural resource and we environment . '' .
official say the move be unlikely to trigger broad use of the endanger species act to regulate greenhouse - gas emission .
while the bush rule specifically prohibit endanger species consultation on the basis of global process such as climate change , a interior official speaking on the condition of anonymity say that under the new policy , such a review would be trigger only if scientific evidence suggest a causal connection between emission from a federal project and its effect on a imperil species or a identifiable part of its habitat .
when plan to widen interstate 90 through snoqualmie pass , state transportation brass , federal agency and green wisely opt to cut down on road -lrb- and people -rrb- kill , and to give peace a chance .
the result will be a series of wildlife overpass and underpass , and effort to make gold creek a healthy home to the endanger bull trout .
the unspoken trade-off : no lawsuit will hold up or raise cost on work that benefit the economy , and ease the drive to and from eastern washington .
before leave the political stage , the bush administration aim to kiss off this kind of modest use of intelligence .
it be , say rep. jay inslee , d-wash , the bushy ' '' last sour note . '' .
use the christmas season for cover , the interior department on thursday issue '' revise '' regulation design to shield federal project from review under the endanger species act .
'' i have be wait and hold my breath for one last awful thing -lrb- bush -rrb- would do to be remember by , and he have do it , '' say rep. jim mcdermott , d-wash .
the administration ignore comment from 300,000 citizen and adopt a policy that would allow federal agency to ignore one of the nation 's basic environmental law .
it would eliminate some requirement for independent review by scientist -- notably from the u.s. fish and wildlife service and national marine fishery service -- as agency plan project involve timber sale , road construction and oil lease .
new rule would also prohibit federal agency from assess how a propose project would add to global warming or jeopardize species habitat .
'' nothing in this regulation relieve a federal agency of its responsibility to ensure that species be not harm , '' interior secretary dirk kempthorne tell reporter .
huh ?
'' if this rule have be implement in year past , highway builder could have do what they want , without talk to the fish and wildlife service .
we would probably not be see the improvement on i-90 , '' say rick mcguire of the alpine lakes protection society .
'' the i-90 corridor have be a berlin wall between the northern cascade and southern cascade .
if you do not make the means to cross a road like this , it be bad for wildlife .
and it be bad for people who hit wildlife . '' .
inslee note the administration 's recent two-step maneuver in the chukchi sea off the north coast of alaska .
the fish and wildlife service formally list the polar bear under the endanger species act , due to the threat from global warming .
ignore the listing , the fed ' mineral management service proceed to sell oil lease where the bear live .
the bush administration finalize a retroactive justification on thursday .
it create a '' special rule '' for polar bear , allow oil and gas drilling , as long as oil company obey the marine mammal protection act .
'' polar bear do not need a listing .
they need ice , '' say inslee .
inslee note the role of the late sen. henry jackson , d-wash , who back oil development in the arctic and help write the endanger species act .
'' senator jackson and other have the foresight and intelligence to say : let we allow the expertise of government scientist to be tap before decision be make , '' inslee add .
'' that be what the consultation process do .
it have be use to good effect in we state . '' .
critic of the endanger species act often substitute anecdote for fact .
they have argue that consultation with government scientist mean holdup and more work .
in a filing with the interior department , however , the natural resource defense council note that no evidence of delay and cost be produce to support relax the law .
quite the contrary .
the new policy nix informal consultation between agency intend to determine whether a project need more formal and detailed environmental review .
the likely result will be '' erroneous finding '' by agency , argue the nrdc .
what be the consequence ?
project opponent will get grounds to sue .
'' we will look at the final -lrb- rule -rrb- language when it be publish tomorrow , but i think we will see they in court , '' say andrew welzler of the nrdc .
put tooth back in the endanger species act , and reverse the new rule , present a tricky , time-consuming task for the obama administration .
the makeup of obama 's environmental team have surface in recent day .
it be urban , and largely eastern .
the incoming environmental protection agency boss , lisa jackson , have work as new jersey 's environmental commissioner .
soon-to-be senior white house aide carol browner , a al gore protagonist , be from florida .
obama brass would be well advise to turn for help to the pacific northwest and mountain west .
we government leader have deal with tricky issue involve endanger species act listing of puget sound salmon run and orca .
east coast environmentalist , in high government post , prove tone-deaf and clumsy when deal with endanger species issue in the clinton and carter administration .
what be need now be political savvy , plus what george w. bush , in he 2000 campaign , describe as '' sound science . '' .
p-i columnist joel connelly can be reach at 206-448-8160 or joelconnelly @ seattlepi.com .
follow politics on the p-i 's blog at blog.seattlepi.com/seattlepolitics .
obama administration flip bush endanger species ruling .
04 / 28 / 09 07 : 35 pm et .
federal agency again will have to consult with government wildlife expert before take action that could have a impact on threaten or endanger species .
the obama administration say tuesday it be overturn a rule change make in the final week of the bush presidency .
official at the interior and commerce department say they have reimpose the consultation requirement that assure the government top biologist involve in species protection will have a say in federal action that could harm plant , animal and fish that be at risk of extinction .
such consultation have be require for more than two decade until the bush administration make it optional in rule issue last december , just week before the change in administration .
environmentalist argue that the change severely reduce the protection afford under the federal endangered species act .
by roll back this eleventh - hour regulation , we be ensure that threaten and endanger species continue to receive the full protection of the law and that top science will be the foundation of the decision making , say interior secretary ken salazar .
commerce secretary gary locke add : we decision affirm the administration commitment to use sound science to promote conservation and protect the environment . '' .
agency in the two department share responsibility for managing and enforce the endanger species act and employ the government top scientist in species protection .
in march , president barack obama issue a executive order put the bush rule change on hold .
congress follow by give specific authorization for the interior and commerce department to revoke the action , avoid a long and complicated regulatory process .
environmentalist widely praise tuesday action , but some express dismay that salazar do also rescind a rule that limit the protection to the polar bear , which last year be declare as threaten under the endanger species act because of disappear arctic sea ice as a result of climate change .
the bush administration issue a rule that prohibit a agency from take into account indirect adverse impact on the polar bear from activity outside of the arctic region : for example carbon dioxide emission that be link to global warming and , therefore , the loss of arctic sea ice .
congress authorize that rule to be revoke as well , but the interior department say no decision have yet be make on the matter .
from we perspective the job be half do , '' say noah greenwald of the center for biological diversity , a advocacy group .
the polar bear arctic sea ice habitat be melt away .
if the -lrb- bush -rrb- special rule be not strike down the polar bear be likely to be the first large mammal to go extinct due to global warming in the united state . '' .
the end of the long - standing requirement _ date back to 1986 _ of interagency consultation with the interior and commerce agency on endanger species protection produce a firestorm in both congress and within the environmental and conservation community .
for year , agency involve in thousand of federal activity _ from issue clean air rule to approve highway or dam construction _ have have to consult not only they own expert but also biologist at the u . s . fish and wildlife service or the national oceanic and atmospheric administration to ensure the activity do not harm plant , animal or fish that be protect by the endanger species act .
developer and business group argue that the consultation cause unneeded delay and increase the cost of project .
the bush administration make the independent consultation optional , argue that it be a minor shift in policy .
one impetus for the rule change be concern by the bush administration that the endanger species act might be use as a back door to regulate greenhouse gas as a way to combat climate change .
the interior department earlier have declare the polar bear a threaten species because of the loss of arctic sea ice , a change attribute to global warming .
salazar and lock say the two department will jointly decide if any change be need to improve the interagency consultation procedure .
the fish and wildlife service , which be part of the interior department , have jurisdiction over plant and animal , while noaa , part of the commerce department , deal with fish species that be at risk of extinction .
just six week before president-elect barack obama take office , the bush administration issue revise endanger species regulation thursday to reduce the input of federal scientist and to block the law from be use to fight global warming .
the change , which will go into effect in about 30 day , be complete in just four month .
but they could take obama much longer to reverse .
they will eliminate some of the mandatory , independent review that government scientist have perform for 35 year on dam , power plant , timber sale and other project , a step that developer and other federal agency have blame for delay and cost increase .
the rule also prohibit federal agency from evaluate the effect on endanger species and the place they live from a project 's contribution to increase global warming .
interior department official describe the change as '' narrow , '' but admit that the regulation be controversial inside the agency .
environmentalist view they as erode the protection for endanger species .
interior official say federal agency could still seek the expertise of federal wildlife biologist on a voluntary basis , and that other part of the law will ensure that species be protect .
'' nothing in this regulation relieve a federal agency of its responsibility to ensure that species be not harm , '' say interior secretary dirk kempthorne in a conference call with reporter .
current rule require biologist in the fish and wildlife service and national marine fishery service to sign off on project even when it be determine that they be not likely to harm species .
the rule finalize thursday would do away with that requirement , reduce the number of consultation so that the government 's expert can focus on case that pose the greatest harm to wildlife , official say .
but environmentalist say that the rule change would put decision about endanger species into the hand of agency with a vested interest in advance a project and with little expertise about wildlife .
several environmental group file a lawsuit in federal court in san francisco hour after the rule 's announcement .
jamie rappaport clark , a former director of the fish and wildlife service and a vice president of defender of wildlife , say thursday that the change target the '' absolute heart of the endanger species act . '' .
clark tell a house hearing on the bush administration 's last-minute environmental regulation that these change remove '' a system of check and balance that provide a essential safety net for imperil animal and plant . '' .
between 1998 and 2002 , the fish and wildlife service conduct 300,000 consultation .
the national marine fishery service , which evaluate project affect marine species , conduct about 1,300 review each year .
the review have help safeguard protected species such as bald eagle , florida panther and whoop crane .
a federal government handbook from 1998 describe the consultation as '' some of the most valuable and powerful tool to conserve list species . '' .
the bush administration work diligently to get the change in place before obama take over , corral 15 expert in washington in october to sort through 250,000 write comment from the public on the revision in 32 hour .
obama have say he would work to reverse the change .
but because the rule take effect before he be swear in , he would have to restart the lengthy rulemaking process .
house natural resource committee chairman rep. nick rahall , d-w , say he would seek to overturn the regulation use the congressional review act after consult with other democratic leader .
the rarely use law allow congress to review new federal regulation .
congress have oppose similar change to the endanger species protection in the past .
in 2003 , the bush administration impose similar rule that would have allow agency to approve new pesticide and wildfire reduction project without seek the opinion of government scientist .
the pesticide rule be later overturn in court .
the interior department , along with the forest service , be currently be sue over the rule govern wildfire prevention .
in 2005 , the house pass a bill that would have make similar change to the endanger species act , but the bill die in the senate .
oklahoma sen. jame inhofe , the lead republican on the senate environment and public work committee , say in a statement the new regulation be '' common-sense change to a law much overdue for reform . '' .
there be a handful of other environmental regulation still pend before bush leaf office , include a rule to exempt large agricultural operation from report release of ammonia and other hazardous air pollutant .
they must be finalize by dec. 19 in order for they go into effect before jan. 20 .
in a related development , the interior department also finalize thursday a special rule for the polar bear , a species that be list as threaten in may because of global warming .
the rule would allow oil and gas exploration in area where the bear live , as long as the company comply with the marine mammal protection act .
obama administration overturn rule that weaken endanger species act .
april 28 , 2009 .
interior secretary ken salazar announce today that the obama administration will reverse a endanger species act -lrb- esa -rrb- regulation that allow federal agency to go ahead with action that may impact endanger species without consult with expert , essentially circumvent the role of conservation scientist in such decision .
by roll back this eleventh - hour regulation , we be ensure that threaten and endanger species continue to receive the full protection of the law say salazar .
the change to the esa be make last december by the bush administration and draw heavy criticism from environmental and conservation group .
at the time , during heavy campaigning , obama state that he oppose the last minute rule change with a spokesman state : '' as president , senator obama will fight to maintain the strong protection of the endanger species act and undo this proposal from president bush . '' .
darin schroeder , vice president for conservation advocacy at the environmental organization , american bird conservancy , agree with salazar '' s decision .
'' we be gratified secretary salazar and secretary locke act to restore the endanger species act to its intended strength .
the consultation process be one of the cornerstone of the esa , and one of the key check and balance that ensure protection for the 90 bird and 1 , 263 other animal and plant it cover . '' .
another anticipate ruling regard polar bear have not be announce yet .
while the bush administration find that melt ice in the arctic due to climate change be endanger polar bear , they rule that the esa could not use to regulate carbon emission in order to protect the polar bear .
salazar must make a judgment on this rule by may 9th .
'' secretary salazar take a important step today toward restore need protection for endanger species , '' say noah greenwald , biodiversity program director for the center for biological diversity .
'' but he still need to rescind the special rule for the polar bear , which amount to a death sentence for the majestic bear because it exempt greenhouse gas emission from regulation . '' .
the bush administration on thursday eliminate 35-year-old regulation in the endanger species act that require a independent scientific review of propose federal project to determine whether they imperil protected plant and animal .
instead , federal agency undertake project like road and power plant construction or oil and gas drilling will make they own assessment .
without the independent review , such project could be accelerate .
as part of the change announce by interior secretary dirk kempthorne in the final day of the bush administration , the department finalize a interim rule that allow oil and gas drilling in polar bear habitat off alaska 's coast .
the rule change be design to prevent the endanger species act from be use to regulate greenhouse gas emission , essentially make climate change policy .
kempthorne , who characterize the new rule as a common-sense streamlining of bureaucratic process , acknowledge that there be disagreement within the department regard the rule , which take effect in 30 day .
under current law , agency must submit any plan that could harm species on the endanger list for review by scientist at the u.s. fish and wildlife service , which enforce the endanger species act .
the process have be criticize by home builder group and the oil and gas industry for delay costly project .
the consultation requirement be intend as more than just a check and balance .
jamie rappaport clark , executive vice president of defender of wildlife and director of fish and wildlife under president clinton , say the consultation process resolve the problem of '' mission conflict '' between agency .
the department of defense , for example , might not understand why a endanger plant should be consider when expand a bombing range .
'' the problem be the agency do not always properly consider , understand or protect species in they habitat because they be focus on the pursuit of they primary mission , '' clark say .
'' it be hard for the biologist to satisfy they responsibility to protect species if the agency perceive it affect they primary mission . '' .
president-elect barack obama say he would reverse the rule change , as have some member of congress .
but that require a lengthy rule-making process .
in the house , member can invoke the rarely use congressional review act to overturn the regulation .
'' these change be go to result in more species be put in jeopardy , '' clark say .
'' but more importantly , we be not go to know what we do not know anymore . '' .
official say agency would still be hold liable if they approve project that harm threaten or endanger species .
kempthorne also note that any federal agency could choose to informally consult with the fish and wildlife service at any time .
h. dale hall , director of fish and wildlife , say he have concern about how fast the estimate 235,000 public comment be process .
staff assign to the job spend eight hour a day tabulate the comment .
work under strict time restraint , agency employee have nine seconds to read each letter , accord to one calculation .
official say that more than 200,000 of the comment oppose the rule change .
attempt to revise the endanger species act have be rebuff by congress in recent year .
sen. barbara boxer -lrb- d-calif -rrb- say thursday 's action be another assault on the law .
'' these midnight regulation be part of a continue effort by the bush administration to repeal we landmark environmental law through the back door and weaken protection for we nation 's endanger species , '' she say in a statement .
'' i believe they be illegal , and if similar regulation have be in place , they would have undermine we ability to protect the bald eagle , the grizzly bear and the gray whale , '' boxer say .
environmental group , which take the administration to court to force it to list the polar bear , vow to continue the legal battle .
three group , the center for biological diversity , greenpeace and defender of wildlife , file suit in san francisco hour after the change be announce , argue that the regulation fail to follow the public review process .
'' the bush administration have repackage the same old lump of coal as a holiday present for the polar bear , and once again hand its friend in the oil industry a huge gift , '' say kassie siegel , climate program director at the center for biological diversity and lead author of the 2005 petition to list polar bear .
'' these regulation seem design to drive the polar bear extinct . '' .
the rule regard polar bear come seven month after that animal become the first to be place on the endanger species list primarily because of global climate change .
the melting of sea ice be threaten the polar bear with extinction .
this summer , score of polar bear be observe swimming in open sea , far from land or ice floe .
but kempthorne say that he would not allow the 1973 law to be use as a '' back door for implement climate-change policy . '' .
to that end , he clarify regulation address threat to polar bear habitat : greenhouse emission from automobile , power plant and other human activity .
the act require federal agency to designate habitat critical to the creature 's survival , then protect it by strict enforcement .
kempthorne say that accord to he reading , court ruling require pinpoint a specific source of a threat to habitat -- something that he say be scientifically impossible .
that interpretation of the court ' opinion give the government few option to protect polar bear habitat .
president obama overturn endanger species rule bush instate .
former president bush have enact legislation that could have put more animal in danger .
mar 4 , 2009 .
in a move that could anger some people on the other side of the aisle , president obama overturn a administration regulation that could have possibly weaken the stability of the endanger species act .
before former president george w . bush left office , he pass legislation that would have allow federal agency to skip consultation before launch project that could affect endanger wildlife .
this could have put more animal at risk , and while it would have eliminate a lot of red tape in the process , it could have be more risky to endanger animal than necessary .
the problem with the legislation by bush be that it be take scientist out of the equation , and basically remove the most knowledgeable people from the equation .
it would have give a lot of additional power to federal agency , but strip a lot of the rights that the endanger species act give to the animal which it seek to protect .
while the act be not perfect in its implementation or enforcement , undermine by remove any tooth that it might have be a big step in the wrong direction .
president obama have already receive immense support from environmentalist for this move , and by overturn something the bush administration put in place , he show that he be also willing to step up to the plate on issue such as these .
by flat out declare that it be necessary to ensure that no harm will come to endanger species as the result of new project , it give the endanger species act more strength , and do a lot to further the cause of environmentalist look to protect these animal .
with scientist be put back into the equation , it give a lot of hope that the threaten wildlife will stand a better chance at survive over the long term .
it be a questionable move when bush make the move to approve the last - minute legislation during he second term , and while there be a lot of objection , nothing could really be do at the time .
with a eye toward the future , president obama make a really smart decision by bring scientist back into the endanger species fold , and surely help to save a number of animal that could have otherwise be put at risk .
in a move environmental group say strike at the heart of the endanger species act , the bush administration on thursday announce a new rule that would let federal agency decide on they own whether they project harm endanger species , instead of require they in many case to get a second opinion from federal wildlife expert .
biologist call on obama administration to overturn bush rule that cut science out of endanger species decision .
interior and commerce secretary must act by may 9 .
washington - april 27 - .
more than 1 , 300 federal and independent scientist with biological expertise and three lead scientific society today call on the interior and commerce department to overturn rule change make in january that weaken the scientific foundation of the endanger species act .
in a letter , the scientist urge the department secretary to rescind change to endanger species act regulation that allow federal agency to decide for themselves if they own project - - such as road , dam and mine - - would threaten imperil species .
previously , federal agency be require to consult with biologist at the u . s . fish and wildlife service or national marine fishery service before undertake or permit project .
many federal agency do not have the scientific expertise to determine the consequence of federal project on endanger species and may have vest interest in the implementation of a project , '' say stuart pimm , dori duke professor of conservation ecology at duke university , who help organize the scientist letter .
the new rule exclude expert scientist - - who for decade have provide impartial review and critical analysis - - from the process . '' .
the ornithological council , society for conservation biology and the wildlife society , which collectively represent more than 20 , 000 scientist , also send a letter today ask the interior and commerce secretary to rescind the change and make other improvement to the scientific base of the endanger species act .
as the threat we face continue to evolve , federal scientist must be able to evaluate they consequence for imperil species .
put boundary on the science that inform the endanger species act fundamentally undermine the ability of science and scientist to protect we nation biodiversity , '' say alan thornhill , a ecologist and executive director of the society for conservation biology .
politics play a huge role in such decision , '' say michael hutchin , executive director and ceo of the wildlife society .
expert review and oversight be critical . '' .
the rule generate concern when they be hastily push through at the end of the last administration with little discussion or debate .
the obama administration have address the rule change , but have not formally overturn it .
on march 3 , president obama direct the commerce and interior department to review it , state that we should be look at way to strengthen -lsb- the endanger species act -rsb- - - not weaken it . '' .
president obama also direct federal agency to continue consult with scientist on project that might harm endanger species .
congress also have take step to address the problem .
a provision in a omnibus spending bill sign by president obama on march 11 allow interior secretary ken salazar and commerce secretary gary locke to rescind the rule change within 60 day .
secretary salazar have say publicly that he be concern about the rule change , but have not indicate that he will act by the may 9 deadline .
on friday , it be report that the interior department send a rule to the white house office of management and budget that address the interagency review process but not other part of the rule that the scientist want repeal , particularly the limit on what kind of information can be use in determine how to protect the polar bear .
the content of the rule be not release .
the two letter also urge the administration to take a more comprehensive look at how science can better inform decision - make under the endanger species act .
accord to the scientist , other recent change create unrealistic deadline for scientific consultation and limit the type of information federal scientist can consider when evaluate federal project .
these change chop down the role of science in governmental decision - make , leave less than a stump behind .
the loss of science translate into real loss of biodiversity , '' say francesca grifo , a biodiversity expert and director of the union of concerned scientist scientific integrity program .
the new rule weaken the scientific foundation of the endanger species act and make it easier to base decision on politics instead of science .
in give the department the authority to roll back these rule , congress have give the american people a gift , and the department secretary need to open it . '' .
